# Meta WG 2019.09.30

- [Video](https://youtu.be/EWMxvNiBZTA)
- [Dropbox paper](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Meta-WG-2019.05.30--AeGWtRoMg~qSscgukh06wLjQAg-LDdfyvbumDoluMHyfkJGX) -- same as this file

# Agenda
- “Meta meta” discussion?
    - what are the immediate goals we can work towards
- how to have controversial conversations
    - conflict resolution
- how to manage deeply technical conversations
- how do we select what to do and when
    - scheduling breaks, cadence of features
        - how much is it ok to miss things :)
- do we want formal staging mechanism and what is it
    - (and can we skip steps where appropriate)
- when/how should a working group end
# MVP-“ish” plan
- centril: don’t have to overhaul RFC process in one big RFC
    - we can amend the template to require tests, things like that
    - incrementally work with that
- manish: we’ve sort of done this already, right?
    - i.e., there are things that we’ve done with a “more involved” process than the RFC process
- centril: we want to change the minimum bar as well, so not good enough 
- niko: I think it’s good to build up a process “atop” RFC, but also we have to worry about “pre-existing” and new RFCs that are being opened
- centril: we can change the docs — not just say we want a file, say we want a folder
- niko: I’d like to look a bit beyond 
- manish: look beyond technical fixes to “social fixes”
- niko: I’ve been thinking of staging as a kind of social fix — helping to forment team work
- centril: I’ve been advocating for smaller changes because we know it’s something we need to do, but maybe we’re not fully agreed as to what a staged process means
- manish: I don’t think it’ll be enough to help create team work — even if we have a larger WG, it’s still an “us vs them” feeling.
- manish: one thing I recall from the edition discussions is that people involved in lang team would have a longer discussion, dive into tradeoffs, but the moment it’s put out people would view it as “lang team’s only opinion”. If this were done more in public (e.g., WG) I’m not convinced it will change that dynamic.
- manish: I’m thinking about facilitator proposal but not only that
    - some kind of neutral entity that is not the people behind the changes
    - maybe a rotating role
    - designate somebody to be the “summarizer”
- centril: role of a facilitator is something I think we should always have
    - but it seems like you think the technical sessions are in conflict
- manish: no, just wary of introducing technical fixes alone, I think it could make things worse
    - more work for everyone but problem is not resolved
- niko: it seems like we can divide this up somewhat
    - general procedure
    - but also looking at *how* we conduct conversations
        - more summaries and clearer communication would I think help even w/o a neutral facilitator
- centril: rfc’s that need summarization the most are often the hardest
- centril: I also think a more staged process will help here; easier to summarize small parts
- manish: yes, pair it with a specific attempt to make summarizations and things work better
- manish: I would presume you would have separate threads for each issue
    - but it’s not really enough, e.g. a giant syntax thread is still giant
    - a team member doing that means that everyone who disagrees with you gets mad about you writing down their opinion in a way they don’t agree with
- niko: I think an interesting approach is to present the summary as a “live” document
    - ask people for feedback and to edit it
- centril: ideally, we could try to get more of the discussion into the text itself
    - you shouldn’t have to read the whole discussion to catch up
- manish: I think you want the summaries to be linked somewhere more prominent
- centril: incremental + summarization work well together but not mutually requiring each other
- manish: just want to be careful that we don’t just make more work for ourselves
- niko: we don’t want to make more work without benefit, in other words
- centril: we’ve gotten a lot more transparent with summaries, videos, etc
    - one effect I’ve noticed is that lessened the sense that lang team is in a dark, smoky room
- niko: just want to point out that threads can be terrible
    - boat’s “adding lanes to a highway” thing
    - often we need to be able to *focus* conversations as much as anything
        - this I think is sort of tricky but a direction we want to move into
- manish: threads definitely have risks but also enable other solutions
    - staging, faciliation, etc, works better with threads
    - you can do things like lock individual threads
- centril: as an example I think ruling syntax out from realm of discussion is good sometimes
- aaronepower: I think we should focus on definitive start/end points in these discussions
    - often a challenge, discussion kind of trails off
    - everyone needs to know where we 


- niko: can we summarize a bit?
    - threads, summaries need to be part of it


- niko: periodic reports and summaries
- centril: I like the idea but I’ve not done any summaries of grammar WG
    - i.e., it’s too much work
- aarone: we need to “surface” the summaries better
    - need to address how we “surface” them out
- niko: surfacing reports


- what are the “design efforts” lang team is trying to do
    - async-await
    - ffi / c-parity
    - grammar-related work
    - trait-related work
    - const-related work


- “explorational” stage
    - coming up with use cases, examples
    - documenting possible approaches to solving the problem
        - tests
- “design + implementation” stage
    - team has picked (a) specific approach(es) that you think is most promising
        - could be multiple approaches if that seems appropriate
    - designing it and starting to implement
        - creating exhaustive test suite
        - looking for weird cases
- “evaluation” stage
    - documentation, explainers available
- “stabilization”


- what determines to get between stages
    - special case: when to begin “exporation” / form a working group
    - criteria to change stages:
        - entering **design + implementation**:
            - write-up with compelling examples
            - cover all known approaches in at least some detail
            - selected 1 or more approaches 
            - “adventuring party”:
                - lang team liason
                - implementor
                - reviewer
            - can we identify the major pieces of work that have to be done
            - RFC template for this?
            - question marks:
                - documentation, reference
                - organizational work
        - entering **evaluation**:
            - explainer and list of questions
            - maybe this is not a phase, but a tool we can u
            - 
        - entering **stabilization**:
            - test cases
            - what is stabilized 
            - … divergence from RFC — what does this correspond to? …
            - end-user documentation
                - explainer







