# 2019-11-07

* [Recorded video](https://youtu.be/JRMWdN9wj-c)

# Shepherded items

* [ ] const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)
    - The [const-eval](https://github.com/rust-lang/const-eval) repo has been migrated to the rust-lang org (check it out!)
    - RFC 2203 as it relates to heap allocation in constants was discussed [on Zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/146212-t-compiler.2Fconst-eval/topic/.60ConstSafe.60.20and.20bitwise.20copies) and in [rust-lang/const-eval#20.](https://github.com/rust-lang/const-eval/issues/20#issuecomment-550260232)
        - TLDR: We already allow `const V: Vec<i32> = Vec::new(); let x = V; let y = V;` so allowing `Vec::new` (and others) as an array initializer does not cause any new issues.
            - It is undecided whether an array initializer should be considered an ‚Äúexplicit‚Äù context (I lean yes), which would allow calls to arbitrary `const fn`.
        - To allow for heap allocation in constants, we are going to need a modifier on top of `const fn` (`const(heap) fn`?), since `const fn` currently implies that the returned value is bitwise copyable.
            - Maybe we could do this with dynamic checks? But there‚Äôs concerns about generics and changing the value returned by a `const fn` becoming a breaking change.
                - The breaking change part is not new: changing the value of a public `const` can cause integer overflow at compile-time in downstream crates.
    - I have two PRs open to further if and match in constants. [#66170](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66170) improves diagnostics when an `if` or `loop` appears in a const context. [#65949](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65949) is the latest in a series of PRs that will disable the old const-checker/qualifier in favor of the dataflow-based one.
        - The least complex version of the diagnostics PR will break code like `const _: i32 = loop { break 4; };`, which is currently allowed on stable.
* [ ] RFC 2753 ‚Äî unwind/ffi interaction ‚Äî kyle/adam
    - [RFC 2797](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/T-Lang-Meeting-Current-meeting--Ant7PBwWnDPNFAPc0f3TJewhAg-nRfrSxCbfeo9q7fEYogZQ) to create group is open and in FCP 
    - Working on how to frame the question around ‚ÄúC unwind‚Äù ABI vs other options
        - made progress today
        - will try to wrap this up and schedule a meeting
* [ ] ‚Äúdyn trait‚Äù stuff (Niko) ‚Äî [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
    - did a [crater run](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66037#issuecomment-549575983) but have not analyzed the impact
        - üìä 2138 regressed and 0 fixed (77633 total)
        - but we need to analyze root breakage
* [ ] grammar working group ‚Äî qmx
* [ ] `!` type and fallback ‚Äî centril
    * [ ] https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65355

# Triage

* [ ] Review last week‚Äôs action items
* [x] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [x] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [ ] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        * [ ] (See above)
* [ ] [Nominated PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [[WIP] Make a table of trait object type_ids and vtable pointers available to programs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66113)
        - premature, let‚Äôs wait a week
    * [x] [Stabilize `!` in Rust 1.41.0](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65355)
    * [x] [Stabilize attribute macros on inline modules](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64273)
        - pnkfelix to update on the current status
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64197
        - our sense is that we probably want the semantics to be ‚Äúlazy loading‚Äù of out of line modules
            - would need some API to do this, but don‚Äôt need that API *now* 
            - but where is this design happening, in any case?
                - how would we make this decision?
        - also: `mod foo { mod bar; }` is fairly weird in any case
            - path handling is quite confusing in any case
        - effectively the rule for users would be ‚Äúprocedural macros cannot be applied to out-of-line modules (or things that contain out-of-line modules)‚Äù
        - Documentation: ‚ÄúNote that an out-of-line module, `mod foo;`, appears to any macro as just that statement; the macro does not run over the contents of the module.‚Äù
        - feels like we want some kind of ‚Äúshepherded group‚Äù here, feels weird to not know where we are going
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    * [ ] [Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
* [ ] [Nominated RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)[s](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [ ] rfcbot pending list
    - merge: [**RFC: Generalized Type Ascription (rust-lang/rfcs#2522)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2522#issuecomment-415551732)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [michaelwoerister](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/michaelwoerister)  [nagisa](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nagisa)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [varkor](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/varkor)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**RFC: Elide array size (rust-lang/rfcs#2545)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for RFC 2046, label-break-value (rust-lang/rust#48594)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48594#issuecomment-451672227)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [nrc](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nrc)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Make the turbofish syntax redundant (rust-lang/rfcs#2544)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2544#issuecomment-453653193)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Stabilize Ident::new_raw (rust-lang/rust#59002)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/59002#issuecomment-470953372)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Default behavior of unwinding in FFI functions (rust-lang/rust#58794)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794#issuecomment-471281244)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**target_feature 1.1 (rust-lang/rfcs#2396)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2396#issuecomment-473371179)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns (rust-lang/rfcs#2632)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2632#issuecomment-481395097)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    * [x]  merge: [**Tracking issue for `#![feature(maybe_uninit_ref)]` (rust-lang/rust#63568)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63568#issuecomment-543959444)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [Kimundi](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Kimundi)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [dtolnay](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/dtolnay)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
            - blocked on working out some minor issues; should be resolved soon.
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ! ] lots

# Discussion from pre-triage :)

- `#[cfg]` wrapped around new syntax (including `#![cfg]` atop modules), as broken by https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65860 
    - (Not sure if lang or compiler; the change was done in T-compiler, but the discussion about what this breaks might be T-lang?)
    - Has historically worked; potentially difficult to guarantee for every future syntax change.
    - Can we keep it working for all current cases, and then provide guidelines for when it will and won‚Äôt work?
    - We need a stable `cfg_if` or `delay_parse` if we‚Äôre going to recommend those as the solution.

# Main topic

- turbofish (Niko)
    - general sense that the energy to build consensus here doesn‚Äôt feel worth it
    - leaving it locked is ungreat
    - would some amount of time for experimentation on nightly suffice?
        - e.g. to let editors build it in practice
        - but the ‚Äúphilosophical concern‚Äù of parsing being very complex can‚Äôt be resolved that way
- Roadmap plans (Niko)
    - Rough idea: should we have a meeting where we each bring some ideas and we compare?
    - Let‚Äôs each bring a sorted top-5 list (or top-N list), where the top ~2 items are considered to be actively shepherded, and the remainder are a backlog of things we‚Äôre not working yet on but still care about.
    - Discussion about design backlog vs implementation backlog:
        - Design getting ahead of implementation
        - Design backlog (problems we care about but aren‚Äôt done designing a solution for)
- Problems we have:
    - pending RFCs, a lot
    - time from ‚Äúaccepted RFC to stable feature‚Äù is much too long
    - RFC process doesn‚Äôt scale up to big conversations, sometimes we route around it
        - we don‚Äôt review RFCs in this meeting, sometimes making decisions on rust PRs/issues

