# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

[Video recording available](https://youtu.be/ulbNhTWBHGc)

# Shepherded items

* [ ] const evaluation — 
    - Some previously fuzzy terminology around promotion [was defined.](https://github.com/rust-rfcs/const-eval/pull/28) Have a look at the [updated rules](https://github.com/rust-rfcs/const-eval/blob/master/promotion.md).
    - There’s [ongoing discussion](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65737) around what rules for promotability should be used in [RFC 2203 “Constants in array repeat expressions"](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2203-const-repeat-expr.md). Specifically, these rules determine whether `[Vec::new(); 2]` would be allowed.
        - Will continue discussion async.
    - [#63812](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/63812) is almost merged, so support for  `if` and `match` in constants on nightly will come in the next week or so.
        - There’s some changes I need to make around “promotion” in `const` bodies to fix [#65372](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65732), and that will touch a lot of the same code.
* [ ] RFC 2753 — unwind/ffi interaction — kyle/adam
    - [Recent PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65646) that proposed to support unwinding (allowing foreign exceptions to cleanly propagate)
    - Some folks arguing for `extern` `"``C``"` to support unwinding, much as C with exceptions
        - Essentially a defaults question
    - Have an [“in progress” document](https://hackmd.io/ymsEL6OpR6OSMoFr1As1rw) summarizing the pros/cons
        - measurements for the impact on codegen?
        - people are likely not *expecting* unwinding across FFI boundaries
            - unsafe code is often in this vicinity
    - interesting questions
        - what about `-Cpanic=abort` code?
            - would this plan require code to catch at each FFI call?
            - or would we prefer to just make it UB?
            - code that uses `extern` `"``C``"` which throws exceptions
                - under `-Zpanic=abort`, if we made that UB, then this code would be unsound (should an exception propagate)
        - argument for today’s default:
            - most FFI instructions do not unwind, even if they *could* 
            - better to highlight those places where unwinding *can* occur 
                - they require extra auditing
* [ ] “dyn trait” stuff
    - Update: I've got a working prototype now that removes the object candidate, based on the model I described. It is able to bootstrap successfully but for some reason I do not yet understand it fails miserably at running tests, which all die with some obscure ICE while loading the stdlib. Investigating.
* [x] #63599 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599)— [Stabilize RFC 2451, re-rebalance coherence](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599) @Nicholas M
    * [x] waiting on a PR to land
    - FCP is done; there’s possibly a bug to fix; some tests were added, Niko will handle it.
* [x] grammar working group — qmx
- progress as usual
# Triage
* [ ] Review last week’s action items
* [x] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [x] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [x] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [Non-`'static` lifetime inferred for return position `impl Trait` (fixed in beta)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65582)
        * [ ] We can file a PR after the meeting, but wontfix otherwise.
    * [x] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        * [ ] @Nicholas M has a working prototype now that removes the object candidtate, based on the model they described. (See comment on thread).
* [ ] [Nominated PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] #65338 — [[WIP] Add implicit named arguments for fmt macros](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65338)
        - Petrochenkov asks: “is this lang”?
            - Centril read the actual code for the macro and noted that
                - It takes full advantage of diagnostics infrastructure so it cannot be implemented in standard library really
                - It uses def_site spans which are not stable.
                - Although this macro isn’t an attribute, derive and built-in attributes have been a lang issue and Centril things that should remain so (also because e.g. `#[default]` would interact with default field values).
                - Happy to share with T-Libs tho on the macro :)
        - [KodrAus suggests:](https://github.com/KodrAus) “this wants an RFC”?
        - Petrochenkov notes that: "The hygiene question is pretty simple here - inherit the identifier span from the string literal (at least the hygienic context part of it, the location can probably be made more precise). Looks like the PR does exactly that.”
        - We’ll share it with Libs and they can drive it but we want an RFC.
        * [ ] #65539 — [resolve: Turn the "non-empty glob must import something" error into a lint](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65539)
        - consensus:
            - we feel like users would probably prefer a warning
            - but if there is a strong argument 
    * [x] #65355 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65355)— [Stabilize `!` in Rust 1.40.0](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65355)
    * [x] #64694 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)— [Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)
    * [x] #62262 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/62262)— [Extend `#[must_use]` to nested structures](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/62262)
        - concern: call to `drain(..)` *does* have an effect and is a common idiom for truncating the collection, strangely or not
            - the warning suggests that this is a no-op, but it is not
        - still feels like a change to the “semantics” of must-use —
            - it becomes leaky, like an auto trait
            - feels like it should at minimum be an RFC
        - another, simpler option would be to propagate `#[must_use]` explicitly to the cases we fell it makes sense
            - `#[must_use(transparent)]` or something for cases like `Box`?
            - the fact that 23 crates are affected suggests it is not that hard to propagate the annotations as well?
        - niko’s thought:
            - (could lint if a struct contains `#[must_use]` types without some `#[must_use]` annotation on how it should be propagated)
        - Taylor will leave comment.
    * [x] #65646 — [Allow foreign exceptions to unwind through Rust code](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65646)
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    * [x] [Under what conditions can you implement Copy for a union? #65748](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65748)
        - conservative path, currently implemented behavior
        - consensus: do it (Centril to FCP)
    * [x]  [Reduce the places where `stable` annotations are needed #65515](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65515) 
        - not really lang team 
    * [ ] #65477 — [Extend overlapping ranges lint to cover cases with more than a single element overlapping](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65477) 
        - Let’s discuss in full meeting.
        - No clear conclusion (we don’t feel very strongly) but:
            - crater run might be helpful
            - feels like clippy territory
            - could imagine use cases but not that strong
                - (e.g., two ranges defined by constants that happen to overlap and you want to give one priority)
    * [x] #63197 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63197)— [Incorrect undefined behaviour on static references created from pointers?](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63197)
        * [ ] Un-nominated
    * [ ] [Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005) [#55005](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
        - maybe assign someone to “do their homework” and talk about it next time?
        - specifically to review the embedded proposals
* [ ] [Nominated RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)[s](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)
        - current status: [pending fcp](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632#issuecomment-4813950970)
    * [ ] [Make the turbofish syntax redundant](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544)
        - current status: [pending merge with two concerns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544#issuecomment-453653184)
            - please-explicitly-disclaim-grammatical-precedent ([#2544 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544#issuecomment-453708156))
            - too-uncertain-for-its-value ([#2544 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544#issuecomment-453710318))
        - more importantly, its currently locked for being too heated. boats locked it "for a few days” in january…
* [ ] rfcbot pending list
    - merge: [**RFC: Generalized Type Ascription (rust-lang/rfcs#2522)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2522#issuecomment-415551732)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [michaelwoerister](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/michaelwoerister)  [nagisa](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nagisa)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [varkor](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/varkor)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**RFC: Elide array size (rust-lang/rfcs#2545)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for RFC 2046, label-break-value (rust-lang/rust#48594)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48594#issuecomment-451672227)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [nrc](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nrc)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Make the turbofish syntax redundant (rust-lang/rfcs#2544)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2544#issuecomment-453653193)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Stabilize Ident::new_raw (rust-lang/rust#59002)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/59002#issuecomment-470953372)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Default behavior of unwinding in FFI functions (rust-lang/rust#58794)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794#issuecomment-471281244)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**target_feature 1.1 (rust-lang/rfcs#2396)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2396#issuecomment-473371179)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns (rust-lang/rfcs#2632)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2632#issuecomment-481395097)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for core::arch::{x86, x86_64}::has_cpuid (rust-lang/rust#60123)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/60123#issuecomment-490609177)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [sfackler](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/sfackler)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Stabilize `!` in Rust 1.40.0 (rust-lang/rust#65355)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65355#issuecomment-541381215)
        - [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution (rust-lang/rust#64694)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64694#issuecomment-543314552)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for `#![feature(maybe_uninit_ref)]` (rust-lang/rust#63568)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63568#issuecomment-543959444)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [Kimundi](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Kimundi)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [dtolnay](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/dtolnay)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] lots
# Main topic proposals
- Stabilizing `!`
    - do we want to move forward and how are we resolving the concern here?
    - who is managing this process?
    - immediate steps:
        - add some sort of lint and try to figure out its impact?
        - 
        - stabilize `!` and pursue fallback separately?
            - argument for: 
                - we’ve been blocked for a long time on getting `!`, which has strong benefits, because of fallback, which has fewer benefits
            - argument against:
                - we have energy to make the fallback change
                    - but: that isn’t blocked by stabilizing the rest, that energy can still be spent
                - it’s confusing if `!` is a type but the fallback is not `!` 
                    - but: how bad is this, particularly if temporary?
        - Argument: Introducing `Infallible` already got us a lot of the benefits of `!`
            - This did unblock `TryFrom`
            - But: everybody has their own variants because infallible has semantic connotations
        - Question:
            - If we *do* implement the lint, would we be ok with changing the fallback?
- **Consensus from meeting:**
    - We would like to stabilize `!` without fallback
    - But we still want to change the fallback; to do so, we need:
        - a lint that people can enable to diagnose if their behavior is related to this
        - important root crates that relied on this behavior updated
            - (we have this already more or less, with objc crate)
- Another question:
    - Will `Infallible` become an alias to `!`? Presumably yes.


    let x: ?X = try!(Deserialize::deserialize());
    
    match 
      Ok(v) => v,
      Err => return, // fallbacks to !


- RFC: Pointer metadata & VTable [#2580](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2580)
    - do we want to move forward?

