# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

[Video recording available](https://youtu.be/X2z3CoV0OUM)

# Action items
* [x] organize a roadmap meeting
* [x] organize some procedural discussion meeting and/or forum
* [x] pnkfelix to write comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66220 (improper_ctypes)
* [ ] niko to write comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64315
    * [ ] Fixes soundness bug 18510 by aborting on unwind from safe extern "C" functions only #64315
* [ ] Niko to fcp cancel [**Default behavior of unwinding in FFI functions (rust-lang/rust#58794)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794#issuecomment-471281244)
* [ ] propose case-by-case uplift for clippy lints (scottmcm) & cancel FCP
    - merge: [**Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)
    - felix to summarize the situation for #66000
* [ ] [`Box` is marked as "dereferencable"for for the duration of the call](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66600)
    * [ ] Felix will leave a comment.
* [ ] [`unused_parens` triggers on macro by example code](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66295)
    * [ ] Centril will leave a comment
# Next meeting proposals
- December 5th: Inline assembly working group (let’s delegate Amanieu as shepherd)
- dereference with ralfjung / compiler’s llvm-wg / ucg wg?


# Shepherded items
* [ ] const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)
    - &mut <type> / &mut <place_expr>
    - if/match
    - loops…
* [ ] RFC 2753 — unwind/ffi interaction — kyle/adam
    - some relevant comments on [#64315](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64315) can be [found in Zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/210922-wg-ffi-unwind/topic/.22fixing.20the.20soundness.20bug.22)
    - particularly: should we keep status quo?
    - it’s going to be some time before we reach any form of consensus
    - still working towards measuring code size increase from having FFI functions abort when unwinding occurs if in `-Cunwind=abort`
    - going to create an issue trying to push the branch forward
    - planning to write a blog post to summarize state of the conversation and form as a sort of call for participation to engage a bit
* [ ] “dyn trait” stuff (Niko) — [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
    - what to do for next step?
        - adapt branch to a future compatibility warning — maybe work with blitzerr on that
        - prepare an RFC
* [ ] grammar working group — qmx
    - no update
# Triage
* [x] Review last week’s action items
* [x] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [x] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [ ] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [`Box` is marked as "dereferencable"for for the duration of the call](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66600)
        - we put dereferenceable attribute on `Box<T>` parameters
        - semantics as defined today are “this can be dereferenced through the fn body”
        - but this is not true for box, as it can be dropped
        - seems like LLVM doesn’t know what semantics it wants
            - we probably could provide some feedback
            - ==> wg-llvm; ==> UCG
        - We’d want some perf numbers to see how to prioritize.
            - (but given that passing around a `Box<T>` is believed to be relatively rare, we suspect the performance hit here may not have such a terrible impact)
        - Action: Felix will leave a comment.
    * [ ] [`Pin` is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)

playpen: https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2018&gist=980b86aeb02c923e25937297e5018ef6

core thing is that you can write an impl like the following:


    impl<'a> DerefMut for &'a MyLocalType {
        fn deref_mut(&mut self) -> &mut Self::Output {
            // This is not guaranteed to return the same address as `Deref::Deref`
            // `Pin::as_mut` does not expect this.
        }
    }
    
    impl<'a> Clone for &'a mut MyLocalType {
    }
    
    unsafe PinSafeDerefMut: DerefMut { }
    unsafe PinSafeClone: Clone { }

Two options to fix (not mutually exclusive):

- make an unsafe `DerefMut` and `Clone` trait
    - at some point we *will* want a notion of “Well behaved”, but what does it mean yet?
    - 
- rule out these `DerefMut`, `Clone` impls
    - we could use some ad-hoc rule here, or perhaps the reservation mechanism
    - reservation mechanism doesn’t work, niko thinks
        - it prevents you from using *negative reasoning*
        - but doesn’t prevent impls from being added
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/714
- 


    * [ ] [`unused_parens` triggers on macro by example code](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66295)
        - rough consensus around using a heuristic to exclude code that originates from within macro definitions
        - Centril will add a comment.
    * [ ] [improper_ctypes fires for &mut T, &T, *const T and *mut T (when T: Sized)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66220)
        - (from last week:)
        - background:
            - changed improper ctypes lint so that it would fire more frequently
            - so that functions with `extern` `"``C``"` type (defined in Rust) would be checked too
                - in addition to imported foreign items (`extern` `"``C``"` `{ fn foo(); }`)
            - this uncovered a lot of false positives (unnecessary warnings)
                - specifically: if you have `&Foo` where `Foo: Sized`, that is well-defined (i.e., it will be a C pointer) but the lint complains about it
                - this was always the case but we are now analyzing more sources
                - so how should we proceed?
            - current status: PR reverted temporarily
        - [insightful comment by rkruppe, the lint serves two purposes](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66220#issuecomment-551846091)
            - some cases are “out and out UB”
            - other cases are more “avoiding footguns” — you can do this, but caution is required
                - e.g., passing a `&Foo` to a non-C struct `Foo` is ok, as long as you are careful not to deref on the C side or rely on the layout of the struct
            - another difference, we are now talking about data coming *in* to Rust code (vs before, only data going *out* to foreign code)
                - in this case, receiving an `&Foo` makes sense, since you will use it from within Rust
            - so maybe it wants to take into account the sort of item in which the type appears? (or maybe not)
            - who will write comment: pnkfelix
    * [ ] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        * [ ] (See above)
* [ ] [Nominated PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [*Syntactically* permit visibilities on trait items & enum variants](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66183)
        * [ ] Check your boxes, or don’t… depending on your preference :)
    macro_rules! foo {
      ($a:item) => 1,
      ($($a:tt)*) => 2,
    }
    
    foo!(trait Bar { pub fn baz() { } });
    * [ ] [Fixes soundness bug 18510 by aborting on unwind from safe extern "C" functions only](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64315)
        * [ ] niko to leave comment (per last week)
    * [x] [Stabilize attribute macros on inline modules](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64273)
        * [x] What’s up with this Felix? ;)
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    * [x] [`Box` is marked as "dereferencable" for the duration of the call](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66600)
        * [x] see above, also P-high
    * [x] [`Pin` is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)
        * [x] see above, also P-high
    * [x] [`unused_parens` triggers on macro by example code.](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66295)
        * [ ] pnkfelix [nominated](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66295#issuecomment-557098612)
        * [ ] should we stop linting inside a macro?
    * [x] [improper_ctypes fires for &mut T, &T, *const T and *mut T (when T: Sized)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66220)
        * [ ] 
    * [x] [Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
        * [ ] some updates, maybe pnkfelix can enlighten us:
            * [ ] llvm may weaken dereference semantics, which might help with UB but would mean we lose optimization
                * [ ] Centril: maybe someone from our end should speak up @ LLVM and note concerns?
            * [ ] proposed replacements seem to not be applicable, based on [Ralf’s comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005#issuecomment-557017315)
    * [ ] [floating point to integer casts can cause undefined behaviour](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184)
        * [ ] long-standing issue
        * [ ] recent [proposal](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184#issuecomment-557071185) by centril of the rough shape
            * [ ] adopt “saturating semantics”
                * [ ] benchmarking results from long ago [available in an internals thread](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/help-us-benchmark-saturating-float-casts/6231/14)
            * [ ] introduce explicit methods with alternative semantics
        * [ ] For now, add a -Zunsaturated-float-casts
        * [ ] Work on adding intrinsics with docs and then T-libs can decide how to expose.
* [ ] [Nominated RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)[s](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)
* [ ] rfcbot pending list
    - merge: [**RFC: Generalized Type Ascription (rust-lang/rfcs#2522)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2522#issuecomment-415551732)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [michaelwoerister](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/michaelwoerister)  [nagisa](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nagisa)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [varkor](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/varkor)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**RFC: Elide array size (rust-lang/rfcs#2545)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for RFC 2046, label-break-value (rust-lang/rust#48594)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48594#issuecomment-451672227)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [nrc](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nrc)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Make the turbofish syntax redundant (rust-lang/rfcs#2544)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2544#issuecomment-453653193)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Stabilize Ident::new_raw (rust-lang/rust#59002)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/59002#issuecomment-470953372)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Default behavior of unwinding in FFI functions (rust-lang/rust#58794)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794#issuecomment-471281244)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**target_feature 1.1 (rust-lang/rfcs#2396)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2396#issuecomment-473371179)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
        - Centril sat down & reviewed the PR today; left some comments — looks mostly good — text needs some updating but 
    - merge: [**Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns (rust-lang/rfcs#2632)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2632#issuecomment-481395097)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    * [x]  merge: [**Tracking issue for `#![feature(maybe_uninit_ref)]` (rust-lang/rust#63568)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63568#issuecomment-543959444)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [Kimundi](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Kimundi)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [dtolnay](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/dtolnay)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
            - blocked on working out some minor issues; should be resolved soon.
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] lots
# Main topic
- Josh working with Ryan Levick on an RFC about safe transmute and unions
    - responding to [feedback from within Microsoft](https://msrc-blog.microsoft.com/2019/11/07/using-rust-in-windows/)
    - proposal to create a “project group” to explore the idea
        - we don’t have a formal process here yet but wanted to raise it
        - create zulip stream, repository

