# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

# Meeting details
- Date: 2019.10.03
- People in attendance: forgot to record :)
- Video: [YouTube](https://youtu.be/cc8nphc4Aqc)

# Action items
* [ ] **try to schedule a meeting on** **CTFE** @Nicholas M
    - oli, ralf, centril,  maybe eddyb if we can get ‘em, maybe [@ecstatic-morse](https://github.com/ecstatic-morse)
    - topics to include:
        - #63197 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63197)— [Incorrect undefined behaviour on static references created from pointers?](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63197)
        - #2632 — const fn on generic methods
    - what is the process by which we want to see this move forward?
        - spec evolve in https://github.com/rust-rfcs/const-eval or some other repository
        - regular reports, decisions along the way
        - watch oli’s rustconf talk :)
* [ ] reach out to ralf to see when they’re available
* [ ] [#64694](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)— [[WIP] Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694) [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)— @Felix K to make a recommendation
* [ ] [#64035](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035)— [Stabilize proc macros generating `macro_rules` items](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035) [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035)— @Felix K to make recommendation and maybe author stabilization report
* [ ] boats to write comment on 64882
* [ ] scott to write comment on `include_str!`
* [ ] create a `next-edition` label and tag “convert \r\n”
# Shepherded items
* [ ] RFC 2753 — unwind/ffi interaction — kyle/adam
    - got together with batmanaod + acfolzer
    - we plan to revise the RFC to propose creating group
        - [proposed summary](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/blob/8e7cb133a5d22a4970433d44fa4056bfba1e46f8/rfcs/0000-simple_unwind_annotation.md#summary)
    - setjmp/longjmp: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2625
* [ ] “dyn trait” stuff
    - [#57893](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)— [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
    - object safe for dispatch
    - we hit some annoying problems with cycles but we are working them out
    - I’m planning to land the “object safe for dispatch” PR, but it likely hits the same issue actually, I think there are some workarounds
* [ ] [#63599](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599)— [Stabilize RFC 2451, re-rebalance coherence](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599) @Nicholas M
    * [x] waiting on a PR to land
    * [ ] no updates, still want to make a spreadsheet
* [ ] [Stabilize proc macros generating `macro_rules` items](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035) [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035)— pnkfelix
* [ ] grammar working group — qmx
    - simplifying [grammer](https://github.com/LykenSol/grammer) by removing the `indexing` crate usage
        - main target of this work is to make the codebase more approachable for newcomers.
    - better traversal PR merged recently ([gll](https://github.com/rust-lang/gll/pull/137) PR)
    - Eddyb found a way to make some of the blacklisted files to parse faster
    - The legacy grammar [was removed](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64896) from rust’s sources.


    
# Triage

* [ ] Review last week’s action items
* [x] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [x] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [x] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        - see above
* [ ] [Nominated PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [Stabilize --extern flag without a path.](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64882)
        - part of 2018 edition, sort of
        - permit `--extern proc_macro` to mean “find in sysroot”
        - this permits `proc_macro::foo` without an `extern crate`
        - related problem is `extern crate alloc` for `#![no_std]` crates
        - with proc-macro we reserved the name `meta` as a possible future crate, but no real energy to pursue that
        - larger picture feels a bit murky though — 
            - in the case of `no_std`, there needs to be an RFC painting a bigger picture
            - in the case of `meta`, would require more organization work
        - comment:
            - feel good about this particular use, but `no_std` and `meta` 
    * [x] [[WIP] Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)
        - pnkfelix was going to make a recommendation
    * [x] [Stabilize proc macros generating `macro_rules` items](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035)
        - pnkfelix was going to make a recommendation + FCP
    * [x] [convert \r\n -> \n in include_str! macro](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/63681)
        - discuss on meeting…
        - Found [several examples](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/63681#issuecomment-535244540) of code that will break
        - Some back and forth and growing opposition.
        - Revisit the decision?
            - In light of the comments, we’ve decided not to do this change.
            - Add a new macro `include_text` if you want it for now, write an RFC.
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    * [ ] [an empty :vis not works in trait declaration](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65041)
        - AST level currently has 3 different kinds of items in the grammar, based on the context in which they appear. Each has slight deviations:
            - module items
            - trait items
            - impl items
        - the parser for trait items does not accept visibility
        - but this means that if you have `$v:vis` and `$v fn bar()` it errors even if `$v` is empty
            - we can fix this in a targeted fashion by extending grammar for trait items
        - more generally, do we agree that the “grammar” for items within a module and within a trait/impl should be identical (with restrictions enforce semantically)
            - there are things legal in impls (e.g., `default fn`) that don’t make sense in modules and vice versa
            - parse “cover grammar” (superset) and enforce restrictions
        - patterns in traits:
            - you can write `trait Foo { fn foo(T); }` in 2015 but not in 2018
    * [x] [How to handle reservation impls in rustdoc / error messages](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64633)
    * [x] [Stabilize RFC 2451, re-rebalance coherence](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599)
        * [ ] Niko will review tests some more
        * [ ] Centril will review as well
    * [x] [Incorrect undefined behaviour on static references created from pointers?](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63197)
        * [ ] To schedule
    * [x] [Consider deprecation of UB-happy `static mut`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53639)
        * [ ] Postpone until next week when Ralf is here.
    * [x] [Tracking issue for RFC 2008: Future-proofing enums/structs with #[non_exhaustive] attribute](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/44109)
        * [ ] In FCP
* [ ] [Nominated RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)

# Main topic proposals

- didn't get to this
