# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

* [Video recording](https://youtu.be/bHaYfsfyBi8)

# Shepherded items

* [ ] const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)
  - No major developments this week.
  - I’m working to remove the old const-checker/promoter in favor of [#64470](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64470) and [#63812.](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/63812) 
      - Both have had crater runs with no regressions and are currently running on nightly in compare mode alongside the old combined pass.
      - eddyb is mentoring me since this is a pretty large change. We want to wait until after the beta branch (Nov. 5?) to land the first in a series of PRs that will accomplish this.
      - Once this is done, I will open a PR that enables  `if` and `match` in constants.
      - This will also unblock nicer fixes for some RFC 2203 bugs.
      - Given `[rand(); 22]`, `rand()` gets invoked once and copied
          - in theory, it’d be nice if `[Vec::new(); 22]` worked, but that would have to be invoked 22 times (because it is not `Copy`)
              - If we could have `const Clone`, might we want to invoke once and then `.clone()`, like happens with `vec![Vec::new(); 22]`?  That would avoid the difference.
                  - And come to think of it, we really don’t want adding `Copy` to a type to be a breaking change, and thus we don’t want it to change the behaviour of making arrays of that type.
          - but `Vec::new` is a const fn — plausibly we could have a rule that takes advantage of that?
          - Discussed at https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65737
  - I still would like to set up an official WG/project group to better track progress and attract new contributors.
  - oli-obk is on vacation, so this is on hold for now.
* [ ] RFC 2753 — unwind/ffi interaction — kyle/adam
    - [RFC 2797](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/T-Lang-Meeting-Current-meeting--Ant7PBwWnDPNFAPc0f3TJewhAg-nRfrSxCbfeo9q7fEYogZQ) to create group is open and in FCP 
    - Continued discussion around the default for `extern` `"``C``"`
        - created a [hackmd document](https://hackmd.io/ymsEL6OpR6OSMoFr1As1rw?view) that summarizes constraints
        - but needs some reorganization after latest round of discussion
        - maybe worth trying to schedule time for a more detailed discussion on this point
            - measurements on fuschia codebase (size profiling)
* [ ] “dyn trait” stuff (Niko) — [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
    - realized a flaw in the scheme we had in mind, [described in this comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893#issuecomment-546972824)
    - proposal is to introduce an impl and leverage specialization
        - but this exact proposal would require an edition
    - reasons to have `dyn trait` declaration
        - semver — unintended consequences
        - The contra-positive of that: when you *did* intend for it to be `dyn`-compatible, you didn’t say that anywhere, so you always end up needing to add the `fn` `*_*``needs_to_be_dyn(_: &dyn Trait)` kinda-hack.
    - Josh: many users of `dyn` will be in other crates, and this seems easy to not initially think to do if you don’t regularly use it yourself. I’m concerned about the impact on the community of people having to poke crates they depend on to say “please add `dyn`" and the maintainers of those crates not necessarily fully understanding the implications of doing so or not doing so. This feels like it makes the compiler’s job easier and developer’s lives harder.
        - Scott: The current situation, though, is that they’re making semver promises without realizing it, so I’m not certain that if the crate author is “not fully understanding the implications” that it’s better for them to be making those promises *invisibly*.  That said, it feels like we’d definitely need a transition period of something like “warning: you’re using `dyn` on a trait that’s not marked as `dyn` in its declaration” to help shake out these cases without breaking all those downstream crates.
            - Josh: I’m not concerned about the *transition*, I’m concerned about the post-transition ecosystem impact of making `dyn` users a kind of second-class citizen.
                - scottmcm: It’s not obvious to me that this would make `dyn` users any more a second-class citizen than `Debug` users or `Copy` users or …
    - (general idea regarding edition)
        - can we have a nightly “rust.next” edition where we can accumulate
        - Related: <https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=label%3Alang-team-202x-edition>
    - next steps:
        - measure the breakage of this proposal as far as possible
        - investigate whether we can have a purely backwards compatibe version
            - “only dyn if it meets the extended rules”
            - but this is somewhat undesirable because it is increasingly baroque and also “one step from cyclic disaster”
* [x] grammar working group — qmx
    * [ ] not present
* [ ] `!` type and fallback — centril
    * [ ] https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65355
# Triage
* [ ] Review last week’s action items
* [x] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [x] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [ ] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        * [ ] (See above)
        * [ ] Discuss if we have time.
* [x] [Nominated PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [Allow foreign exceptions to unwind through Rust code and Rust panics to unwind through FFI](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65646)
        - doesn’t affect documentation, unwinding is still considered UB
        - however cleans up the interaction “in reality” when unwinding does occur
        - C++ exceptions (and other FFI exceptions) can now safely unwind through Rust code:
            - The FFI function causing the unwind must be marked with `#[unwind(allowed)]`. If this is not the case then LLVM may optimize landing pads away with the assumption that they are unreachable.
            - Drop code will be executed as the exception unwinds through the stack, as with a Rust panic.
            - `catch_unwind` will *not* catch the exception, instead the exception will silently continue unwinding past it.
        - not clear that this is the behavior is what we want
    * [x] [Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)
        * [ ] Check your boxes & stuff… Entered FCP
            * [ ] Centril didn’t have time to do so this week either; will review after meeting hopefully.
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    * [x] #65823 — [Attribute macro helper attributes](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65823)
        * [ ] How are we inclined?
        * [ ] What is the process?
        * [ ] What are the semantics? Does the compiler strip them on output? Do you get automatic errors if called on undeclared attributes? Does it improve diagnostics?…
            * [ ] We mildly prefer a brief RFC to explain semantics, and answer these questions.
                * [ ] But we are positively inclined.
    * [x] #55005 — [Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
        - Niko did some research and [left a comment](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/387#issuecomment-548172475). Not convinced that the changes to embedded APIs are needed, or at least they represent a hole that language should provide — but more discussion is needed.
* [ ] [Nominated RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)[s](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)
        - current status: [pending fcp](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632#issuecomment-4813950970)
    * [ ] [Make the turbofish syntax redundant](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544)
        - current status: [pending merge with two concerns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544#issuecomment-453653184)
            - please-explicitly-disclaim-grammatical-precedent ([#2544 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544#issuecomment-453708156))
            - too-uncertain-for-its-value ([#2544 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544#issuecomment-453710318))
                - “general complexity limits”
                - interaction with vim and other simple editors
                - easier for humans to mentally parse languages with simpler gramatical complexity
                - limiting language grammar allows for better (more directed) diagnostics
                - performance of backtracking
        - more importantly, its currently locked for being too heated. boats locked it "for a few days” in january…
        - Do we, collectively, have the energy to process this?
        - Do we, in this meeting, have consensus?
        - Key question:
            - Is this *specific* change causing the problems above, or are they more generic concerns that apply to going to a larger grammatical class?
            - To deeply understand the implications on tooling, can we use nightly to evaluate this? 
                - Specifically, we can avoid stabilizing until major editors offer support, for example. Also libraries like `syn`
                - Concern: are we going to punt this difficult thread to a stabilization issue?
                - *If* we do this, we need a very clear statement of what we’re watching for in nightly
                - Concern: nightly can never resolve a thing like “but I don’t want Rust to have a ‘most vexing parse’ equivalent” complaint that’s not strictly experiential
        - Josh: We need to demonstrate clear understanding of what we’re getting into, in our post when we reopen.
            - “What don’t we know” — something that nightly can help us to find out
            - Our goal: demonstrate that we understand points that were raised
                - and understand what lines are present, that we are crossing with deliberation
                - can we clarify “how far” this decision goes? 
                    - i.e., this is not precedent for arbitrary grammatical complexity
        - Speaker queue:
            - Centril (Q to scott + other)
            - ecstatic-morse (brief Q about 1 yr period) (you can skip me niko)
                - What happens if, after 1 yr, tool maintainers that have political objections to the change don’t make a good faith effort to implement it? I don’t think we can fully separate technical and political concerns.
            - niko — 
                - not convinced we want to re-open the thread after 1 year
                - maybe we want to first dig more deeply anyway, to reach consensus with scott, and see if we can prepare summary
                - and close and re-open (or just close) depending on outcome
* [ ] rfcbot pending list
    - merge: [**RFC: Generalized Type Ascription (rust-lang/rfcs#2522)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2522#issuecomment-415551732)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [michaelwoerister](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/michaelwoerister)  [nagisa](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nagisa)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [varkor](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/varkor)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**RFC: Elide array size (rust-lang/rfcs#2545)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for RFC 2046, label-break-value (rust-lang/rust#48594)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48594#issuecomment-451672227)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [nrc](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nrc)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Make the turbofish syntax redundant (rust-lang/rfcs#2544)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2544#issuecomment-453653193)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Stabilize Ident::new_raw (rust-lang/rust#59002)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/59002#issuecomment-470953372)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Default behavior of unwinding in FFI functions (rust-lang/rust#58794)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794#issuecomment-471281244)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**target_feature 1.1 (rust-lang/rfcs#2396)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2396#issuecomment-473371179)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns (rust-lang/rfcs#2632)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2632#issuecomment-481395097)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for core::arch::{x86, x86_64}::has_cpuid (rust-lang/rust#60123)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/60123#issuecomment-490609177)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [sfackler](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/sfackler)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
        - blocked on [dtolnay’s](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/60123#issuecomment-490609674) `[not_useful](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/60123#issuecomment-490609674)` [concern](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/60123#issuecomment-490609674)

    - [x] merge: [**Stabilize `!` in Rust 1.40.0 (rust-lang/rust#65355)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65355#issuecomment-541381215)

        - [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    * [ ] merge: [**Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution (rust-lang/rust#64694)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64694#issuecomment-543314552)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
            - FCP
    * [x]  merge: [**Tracking issue for `#![feature(maybe_uninit_ref)]` (rust-lang/rust#63568)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63568#issuecomment-543959444)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [Kimundi](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Kimundi)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [dtolnay](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/dtolnay)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
            - blocked on working out some minor issues; should be resolved soon.
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] lots

# Main topic proposals

