# 2019.11.14

[Video recording available](https://youtu.be/0exyVhBmDW0)

# Shepherded items
* [x] const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)
    - no updates this week
* [x] RFC 2753 — unwind/ffi interaction — kyle/adam
    - current status: trying to get measurements of the impact of the FFI
* [x] “dyn trait” stuff (Niko) — [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
    - did a [crater run](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66037#issuecomment-549575983) but have only partially analyzed the impact
* [x] grammar working group — qmx
    - no updates this week
* [x] `!` type and fallback — centril
    * [ ] https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65355
# Triage
* [ ] Review last week’s action items
* [x] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [x] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
* [x] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [improper_ctypes fires for &mut T, &T, *const T and *mut T (when T: Sized)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66220)
        - 
        - background:
            - changed improper ctypes lint so that it would fire more frequently
            - so that functions with `extern` `"``C``"` type (defined in Rust) would be checked too
                - in addition to imported foreign items (`extern` `"``C``"` `{ fn foo(); }`)
            - this uncovered a lot of false positives (unnecessary warnings)
                - specifically: if you have `&Foo` where `Foo: Sized`, that is well-defined (i.e., it will be a C pointer) but the lint complains about it
                - this was always the case but we are now analyzing more sources
                - so how should we proceed?
            - current status: PR reverted temporarily
        - [insightful comment by rkruppe, the lint serves two purposes](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66220#issuecomment-551846091)
            - some cases are “out and out UB”
            - other cases are more “avoiding footguns” — you can do this, but caution is required
                - e.g., passing a `&Foo` to a non-C struct `Foo` is ok, as long as you are careful not to deref on the C side or rely on the layout of the struct
            - another difference, we are now talking about data coming *in* to Rust code (vs before, only data going *out* to foreign code)
                - in this case, receiving an `&Foo` makes sense, since you will use it from within Rust
            - so maybe it wants to take into account the sort of item in which the type appears? (or maybe not)
            - who will write comment: pnkfelix
    * [x] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        * [ ] (See above)
* [ ] [Nominated PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [x] [[WIP] Make a table of trait object type_ids and vtable pointers available to programs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66113)
        - uses linker to collect information about trait object vtables and try to expose for serialization / deserialization
        - there is some work to draft an RFC here
            - I've gone ahead and created a place to collaborate on an RFC: [https://github.com/alecmocatta/trait-object-deserialization](https://github.com/alecmocatta/trait-object-deserialization). I invite anyone with an interest or any insight to feel free to contribute to it! I'll input to it myself over the coming weeks.
        * [ ] Tier 1 & Platform independence?
        * [ ] Linker hacks / mechanism?
    * [x] [Fixes soundness bug 18510 by aborting on unwind from safe extern "C" functions only](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64315)
        - Close as postponed — Niko to write comment
    * [x] [Stabilize attribute macros on inline modules](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64273)
        - pnkfelix to update on the current status
        - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64197
        - our sense is that we probably want the semantics to be “lazy loading” of out of line modules
            - would need some API to do this, but don’t need that API *now* 
            - but where is this design happening, in any case?
                - how would we make this decision?
        - also: `mod foo { mod bar; }` is fairly weird in any case
            - path handling is quite confusing in any case
        - effectively the rule for users would be “procedural macros cannot be applied to out-of-line modules (or things that contain out-of-line modules)”
        - Documentation: “Note that an out-of-line module, `mod foo;`, appears to any macro as just that item; the macro does not run over the contents of the module.”
        - feels like we want some kind of “shepherded group” here, feels weird to not know where we are going (e.g. with pnkfelix, alexreg, et. al)
        - Felix to FCP merge
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    * [x] [Rust shouldn't warn about snake case in patterns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66362)
        - warn just at point of definition?
        - or warn also on the local variable?
        - how much do we care about enforcing the name convention vs annoying user?
        - what is chance you would do this at a local level and not crate?
            - reasonable to turn it on at point where you have e.g. auto generated or names that match elsewhere
            - or interop with other crates
        - Josh to write a summary (don’t lint for field puns specifically)
    * [x] [Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
        - (not discussed this week)
* [ ] [Nominated RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)[s](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)
    * [ ] 
* [ ] rfcbot pending list
    - merge: [**RFC: Generalized Type Ascription (rust-lang/rfcs#2522)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2522#issuecomment-415551732)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [michaelwoerister](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/michaelwoerister)  [nagisa](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nagisa)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [varkor](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/varkor)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**RFC: Elide array size (rust-lang/rfcs#2545)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Tracking issue for RFC 2046, label-break-value (rust-lang/rust#48594)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48594#issuecomment-451672227)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [nikomatsakis](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nikomatsakis)  [nrc](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/nrc)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Make the turbofish syntax redundant (rust-lang/rfcs#2544)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2544#issuecomment-453653193)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Stabilize Ident::new_raw (rust-lang/rust#59002)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/59002#issuecomment-470953372)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Default behavior of unwinding in FFI functions (rust-lang/rust#58794)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794#issuecomment-471281244)
        - [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**target_feature 1.1 (rust-lang/rfcs#2396)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2396#issuecomment-473371179)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    - merge: [**Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns (rust-lang/rfcs#2632)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2632#issuecomment-481395097)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [aturon](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/aturon)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
    * [x]  merge: [**Tracking issue for `#![feature(maybe_uninit_ref)]` (rust-lang/rust#63568)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63568#issuecomment-543959444)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [Kimundi](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Kimundi)  [cramertj](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/cramertj)  [dtolnay](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/dtolnay)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)  [withoutboats](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/withoutboats) 
            - blocked on working out some minor issues; should be resolved soon.
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)

# Main topic
- how to organize ourselves
    - concern:
        - keeping “the funnel” tight through which RFCs pass so that the compiler team has fewer things to work on (and can e.g. finish the on-going things, ICEs, soundness holes, etc.)
    - concern: 
        - open PRs on the RFC repo do not reflect the actual priorities we are trying to set
    - concern: 
        - no good channel for “lower priority” discussion to occur at some pace
            - e.g. how does RFC #2580 potentially make progress? 
    - concern:
        - some people we want in this meeting (*cough* Ralf *cough*) have limited schedules and need advanced notice
    - concern:
        - going over shepherded items in detail often not possible here
    - strawperson proposal:
        - establish a second design meeting, a la compiler team
        - schedule meetings on high priority topics most of the team
        - but have a “wildcard” meeting at a regular frequency
            - rotate who leads the meeting, perhaps, let them pick the topic?
        - to address concern of time:
            - 60 minutes of detailed discussion, meeting A
            - 30 minute triage meeting, meeting B
            - pre-triage before to populate lists
    - minutes from discussion
        - don’t have them back to back
        - can we find a time that works? (see the doodle)
        - to deal with the problem of open RFCs not matching our priority
            - maybe we can migrate open RFCs to issue repo
            - need a process to periodically review, get a liason assigned

