# Lang Team Triage Meeting Minutes

## Action items

* [ ] propose case-by-case uplift for clippy lints (scottmcm) & cancel FCP
    * merge: Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)

* [ ] niko to post summary comment on turbofish RFC and postpone

* [ ] niko to comment on [Expr walking structural match (reopened) #67088](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67088)

* [ ] niko to pursue scheduling design meeting around `Pin` and trying to gather up constraints

* [ ] centril to comment on [Replace our fragile safety scheme around erroneous constants #67191](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67191) and describe "rough consensus" below

## Design meeting topics

### Urgent-ish

* ffi-unwind and the "C" ABI (proposed)

* dyn Trait + coherence interaction #57893

* stacked borrows overview + `&self` in AtomicUsize (proposed)

* `Pin` and rogue `DerefMut` impls #66544 (proposed)

### Speculative 

* roadmap + next edition (proposed)
    * see also [this list](https://hackmd.io/J8AgNxIeTe69RrpRjaBzAA) which only Niko filled out :)

* unsafe code and `&raw` in next edition (proposed)

## Shepherded item updates

### inline assembly (Amanieu, Josh)

* created [project-inline-asm](https://github.com/rust-lang/project-inline-asm) repository and Zulip stream `#project-inline-asm`

* created [RFC to propose project group](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2836)

### safe transmute (Ryan, Josh)

* created [project-safe-transmute](https://github.com/rust-lang/project-safe-transmute) repository and Zulip stream `#project-safe-transmute`

* created [RFC to propose project group](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2835)

### const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)

* [PR #67216](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67216) opened for looping constructs in a const context 

* Bug fixed around `#[rust_const_unstable]` and `#[allow_internal_unstable]` handling with new features (Centril?).

* Work begun on an attribute to set global limit for time spent in const-eval.
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67260

### ffi-unwind (BatmanAod)

* discussed [in Zulip today](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/210922-project-ffi-unwind/topic/weekly.20meeting/near/18328813), people have been busy, but plan is to (a) merge RFC that proposed project group, which has  been done with FCP for a while

* schedule a longer meeting in January to talk out the choice in more depth

* sometime before that meeting:
    * write a blog post explaining the main topic
    * hopefully gather that data

* and move on already =)

### "dyn Trait" stuff (nikomatsakis)

* Relevant issue: [rust-lang/rust#57893](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)

* Update:
    * started a write-up that is categorizing the cases more closely, you can [find it here](https://hackmd.io/Kay3xT6WQvW5wFRoEKkb7g), didn't *quite* finish (a few crates left)

### grammar (qmx)

* Some refactoring work on rustc parser taking place (@Centril)

    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66994
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67112
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67131
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67148

### `never_type` (`!`) stabilization (nikomatsakis)

* [Reverted stabilization.](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67224)

* Will spend some time (either w/ llogic or not) trying to get fallback advanced (haven't done much)

## Shepherding proposals

None this week

## Triage

### [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)

* [x] [Usage of erroneous can be omitted on nightly and beta #67083](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67083)

    * [x] [Replace our fragile safety scheme around erroneous constants #67191](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67191)
        * One aspect:
            * What counts as dead code? (pre & post optimization)
            * NLL has a definition, where we "understand" things like `return` and `break` (and `panic!`) but not `if false { ... }`
            * In dead code, const-evaluation errors are not expected (are lints?)
        * Keeping the standard consistent seems good
            * in other words, `if false { BAD_CONSTANT }` would still be a hard error
        * Who will leave comment:
            * Centril

* [x] [`Pin` is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations rust-lang/rust#66544](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)

    * Proposal: schedule a meeting to discuss in detail
        * Niko will reach out to Ralf & Boats.
        * Ideally they attend the meeting.

* [x] Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object
    * (see above)

### [Nominated PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

* [x] [Introduce `X..`, `..X`, and `..=X` range patterns #67258](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67258)

    * A full implementation & a lot of tests (Centril thinks, but feel free to request more!).
    * Related to `X..Y` range patterns
    * Consistency with range expressions, etc.

    * Questions:
        * How do we feel about this?
        * FCP to merge? Just merge? RFC to stabilize? Process...?
    * Conclusion:
        * Land under a gate
        * RFC to specify the syntax, both open-ended ranges and exclusive ranges
        * Stabilize

* [ ] [add IntoFuture trait and support for await](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65244)

    * Josh & Scott, check your boxes, if you like?

    * [pending FCP](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65244#issuecomment-557549887)

    * Next meeting.

* [x] [Expr walking structural match (reopened) #67088](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67088)

    * pnkfelix can present (wasn't present; we did discuss the semantics a bit).

    * would like to define what semantics we ultimately want here

        * what are the consequences?

        * note that the "generic case" doesn't have to be the same as the "known constant" case

        * should be done on MIR instead of HIR?

        * this PR is focused on the known constant case

        * Niko will leave a comment.

```rust
// this PR takes a "value-based" approach that
// sometimes takes advantage of properties of 
// specific values:
struct SomeType { } // look ma, no derive
const FOO: Option<SomeType> = None; 
match x { FOO => ... }
```

```rust
    const NO_DERIVE_SOME: OND = Some(NoDerive);
    const INDIRECT: OND = NO_DERIVE_SOME;
    match Some(NoDerive) {INDIRECT => dbg!(INDIRECT), _ => panic!("whoops"), };
```

* [x] [mem::zeroed/uninit: panic on types that do not permit zero-initialization #66059](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66059)

    * Not complete implementation yet, OK in dynamic semantics?

    * Crater triage?

    * Some concerns:

        * It's hard to track the overall plan right now

            * Centril would like to have a whole design to accept (via FCP) & then we can incrementally move towards that but would like to end up in a half-baked state. ("Eventual consistency")

        * The code has some open-ended questions in them about what is allowed (search code for FIXMEs...), which of these do we need clearer answers for?

        * Comment from Centril

* [ ] [Add a raw "address of" operator #64588](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64588)

    * Skipped.

### [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)

* [x] [Casting or adding type ascription to panic!() triggers unreachable_code](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67227)

    * deferred till we have more folks
    * Centril listed some options; more feedback from author would be good.

* [x] [PartialEq implementation for RangeInclusive is unsound](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67194)
    
    * seems likely to be due to the known soundness hole in specialization, Niko to comment

* [ ] [Add configurable, per-item instruction limit for CTFE](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67217)

    * would prefer if you are able to attach these definitions to the const fn *definition* more than the use, in contrast to with macros --Niko
    * current infinite loop detector is very slow

* [x] [`Pin` is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations #66544 ](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)

    * see above

* [x] [Tracking issue for `#![feature(slice_patterns)]` #62254 ](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/62254)

    * basically ready to stabilize :tada:

* [x] [Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref #55005 ](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)

* [ ] [Tracking issue for RFC 2091: Implicit caller location #47809 ](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/47809)

* [ ] [floating point to integer casts can cause undefined behaviour #10184 ](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184)

### [Nominated RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

* [ ] [Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)

* [ ] [Make the turbofish syntax redundant](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544)

* [ ] [target_feature 1.1](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2396)

### [rfcbot pending list](https://rfcbot.rs/)

* [ ] Some older items that haven't moved in a while, can we do something?
    * [ ] [RFC: Elide Array Size](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545)
        * It seems like maybe we just want to close this?
        * There is a problem here, do we want to take another stab at reaching consensus?

    * [ ] [Tracking issue for RFC 2046, label-break-value #48594](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48594)

* Some recent additions:
    * [ ] [Make `handle_alloc_error` default to panic (for no_std + liballoc)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66741#issuecomment-558184215)

    * [ ] [Stabilize the `#[alloc_error_handler]` attribute (for no_std + liballoc) #66740](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66740)

* Recap:
    * [ ] [Uplift lints from clippy to rustc (rust-lang/rust#53224)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53224#issuecomment-415097721)

        - Scott to close? What's up with that?

## Future meeting proposals

- dereference with ralfjung / compiler’s llvm-wg / ucg wg?
