# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

# Meeting details
- Date: 2019.10.10
- [Video](https://youtu.be/QvE9-zce5_4)

# Shepherded items
* [ ] const evaluation — see below!
* [ ] RFC 2753 — unwind/ffi interaction — kyle/adam
    - created zulip stream
    - prep’ing a RFC that will propose creating the group and propose moving forward as described in previous meeting
    - should we do some form of announcement before RFC?
    - Status of https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/63909 ?
* [ ] “dyn trait” stuff
    - #57893 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)— [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
    - object safe for dispatch
    - we hit some annoying problems with cycles but we are working them out
    - I’m planning to land the “object safe for dispatch” PR, but it likely hits the same issue actually, I think there are some workarounds
* [ ] #63599 [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599)— [Stabilize RFC 2451, re-rebalance coherence](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599) @Nicholas M
    [x] waiting on a PR to land
    * [ ] [spreadsheet has been made](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WlroTEXE6qxxGvEOhICkUpqguYZP9YOZEvnmEtSNtM0/edit?usp=sharing)
* [ ] [Stabilize proc macros generating `macro_rules` items](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035) [](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64035)— pnkfelix
* [ ] grammar working group — qmx
    - simplifying [grammer](https://github.com/LykenSol/grammer) by removing the `indexing` crate usage
        - main target of this work is to make the codebase more approachable for newcomers.
    - better traversal PR merged recently ([gll](https://github.com/rust-lang/gll/pull/137) PR)
    - Eddyb found a way to make some of the blacklisted files to parse faster
    - The legacy grammar [was removed](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64896) from rust’s sources.
# Triage
* [ ] Review last week’s action items
* [ ] [S-blocked-on-team issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AS-waiting-on-team)
* [ ] [Beta nominations](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeta-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
[x] [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
    [x] [Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
        [x] Being worked on in wg-traits, no updates… maybe niko will work on it tomorrow
* [ ] [Nominated PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [add IntoFuture trait and support for await](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65244)
        - nobody is opposed to this, some people want it
        - procedurally, what should we do?
        - Proposal, FCP merge this plan:
            - Land PR with a brief write-up with motivations
                - with concern about diagnostics resolved
            - Open tracking issue
            - Stabilization report
    * [ ] [Stabilize](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65188) `[const_constructor](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/65188)`
        - tick your boxes
        - you can invoke tuple/struct constructors “indirectly” — i.e., `let x = Some; x(22)`
            - you could always invoke them directly
    [x] [Stabilize --extern flag without a path.](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64882)
        * [ ] Some back & forth, lang is fine, t-compiler can do FCP…
        * [ ] Also ehuss made a rustc-dev-guide PR.
    * [ ] [Fully integrate derive helpers into name resolution](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64694)
        * [ ] Felix is not here
    * [ ] [Stabilize nested self receivers](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64325)
        * [ ] [check your boxes](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64325#issuecomment-539720551)
        * [ ] maybe we should try to document the interactions around object safety more fully, even if it doesn’t block this move per se
    [x] [Clarify `Box<T>` representation and its use in FFI](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/62514)
        * [ ] seems like we want ralf for this
* [ ] [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
    [x] [Stabilize RFC 2451, re-rebalance coherence](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63599)
    * [ ] [Incorrect undefined behaviour on static references created from pointers?](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/63197)
        - we currently check that the value of constants/statics makes sense for the given type
            - currently “as strict as we could make it” (“within reason”)
            - traverses your type to make sure that (e.g.) your booleans are booleans etc
            - makes sure that things like `&u32` is a reference to something you created during const eval
        - biggest problem is promotion:
            - if you take some code that was written “as if” it runs at runtime
            - and we promote it to a constant
            - should not introduce UB
            - probably never going to allow dereferencing a pointer inside a promoted constant
                - `0x15 as &u32` — if we allowed this to be a constant (e.g. on an embedded platform)
            - nightmare scenario:
                - `const DISPLAY_MEMORY: &u32 = &0xA000_0000;`
                - `let x = &(2 + *DISPLAY_MEMORY)` — If we were to promote this, would be bad. Note that we actually **could** for some constants.
                    - Currently we don’t promote dereferences, so it’s not a big problem.
                        - Or so Ralf thinks.
        - Ralf’s proposal:
            - `const <expr>` — explicit const-promoted expression form (“anonymous constant”)
            - forever decide not to “promote” `*<expr>` 
            - loosen the validation rules so that `&T` doesn’t have to be a valid pointer
    * [x] [Consider deprecation of UB-happy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53639) `[static mut](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53639)`
        - Ralf’s proposal is to deprecate non-raw borrows (so permit `&raw mut`)
        - Alternatives: 
            - do nothing
            - ralf’s proposal
            - remove static mut entirely — makes it harder to write certain patterns
        - We generally like ralf’s proposal
        - We would want an RFC
        - Some reasons to deprecate:
            - Introduces speed-bump and it makes it harder to create a `&mut` references that lives a long time
                - However, don’t *know* that this would solve the lazy-static bug
* [ ] [Nominated RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] [WIP: "C panic" ABI specifier](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2753)
    * [ ] [Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)
    * [ ] [Make the turbofish syntax redundant](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544)
* [ ] [Unassigned RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+no%3Aassignee+label%3AT-lang)
    * [ ] lots

# Main topic proposals

- Const evaluation “project group”
    - shepherd: ecstatic-morse
    - members: ecstatic-morse, ralf, oli, centril, eddyb
    - github repository https://github.com/rust-rfcs/const-eval
    - [terminology PR #27](https://github.com/rust-rfcs/const-eval/pull/27)
    - “implementation work”
        - driving towards ifs, loops working on const bodies
    - “specification work”
        - currently “under-specified”
- Roadmap 2020 / Edition 2021 brainstorming
    - Brainstorming document [+Rust 2020 Roadmap Brainstorming](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Rust-2020-Roadmap-Brainstorming-4avmt0xchsAtMSIuos0Pp) 
    - No *major* changes for Edition 2021 probably but maybe some things are worth exploring
        - deprecate UCG anti-patterns?
            - deprecating `&foo as *const` and replacing with `&raw`
            - deprecating `mem::unitialized` more strongly? is it automatable?
        - adjust temporary lifetimes for tail expressions in blocks?
        - type aliases maybe? — would take exploration
- Project Group and writing up procedures
    - I’d like to start documenting lang team procedures on forge as part of Governance WG — Niko
    - Also preparing a “project wg proposal” that I plan to open as an RFC
        - proposes more explicit stages (based on what we have) plus some guidelines for how to manage conflicts etc
        - [current draft lives here](https://hackmd.io/8vSubgF5QYa3h-W15EHfLg)

