# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date 2020-10-19

## Attendance

* Team members: Niko, Josh, scottmcm, pnkfelix
* Others: simulacrum, connor horman

## Before meeting checklist

* [x] Update the project board with new proposals
* [x] Update the project board with new RFCs

## Pending proposals
  - "Restrict promotion to infallible operations" [lang-team#58](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/58)
      - can possibly move to a design note until we get an RFC
      - niko to reach out to ralf and check in on how to handle
  - "MCP: pub(macro)" [lang-team#59](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/59)
      - agree that this problem needs solving
      - might be a good use for wishlist to try and find people
      - (done)
  - "Types as const Parameters" [lang-team#61](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/61)
      - potentially nice simplification in the future; the idea of reifying more of type system into values is interesting
      - but builds on const generics, which are still in progress
      - lots of unknowns (e.g., how to get access to the "values", convert them back into types, etc)
      - scott to write a move to close and tag as FCP

## Design meeting planning

- Getting consensus on lang team membership expectations (could do async)
    - [draft document](https://hackmd.io/qyfBQdcASom9Ab8TNmbdKg?view)
- Lang team process tweaks (seconding/objections)
    - libs team has proposed [this charter](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2979), has a lot of overlap compiler/lang
    - using seconding for approving MCP / proposal
    - using seconding to close/postpone RFCs
    - scheduling of design meetings, how to do it better
- Discuss RFC 2580 (Pointer metadata and vtable) 55 
    - 
- Schedule invited discussion with authors of Rust paper
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/53
    - following up on [this PLDI paper](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~yiying/RustStudy-PLDI20.pdf), to discuss sources of bugs and possible solutions
- Backlog Bonanza
    - This week

* Niko to follow up with a proposed schedule

## Project board review

Review the [Lang team project board](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2) and get updates

## Nominated RFCs
  - "RFC: -C export-executable-symbols" [rfcs#2841](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2841)
  - "RFC: Supertrait item shadowing" [rfcs#2845](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2845)
      - scottmcm read it and found it basically does all the things it should, discusses the key problems
      - most interesting thing: if you bound your generic to `T: Super`, `T: Sub`, `T: Super + Sub`, each has distinct meanings
          - `foo.bar()` would pick the method from super in the 1st case, from sub in the 2nd case, and be ambiguous in the 3rd case
          - also what happens from `T: Foo + Bar` where they share a method
          - presumably also applies to `T::Item` expansion
      - wait for boats to make a call whether to fcp merge

## P-high issues on rust-lang/rust
  - "New "warning incompatible with previous forbid in same scope" error" [rust#77713](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/77713)

## Nominated PRs and issues on rust-lang/rust
  - "Switch `mutable_borrow_reservation_conflict` lint to deny by default" [rust#76104](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76104)
  - "`use dep1::foo as dep1` is considered ambiguous on nightly but not beta" [rust#77586](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/77586)
  - "New "warning incompatible with previous forbid in same scope" error" [rust#77713](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/77713)
  - "repr(transparent) on generic type skips "exactly one non-zero-sized field" check" [rust#77841](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/77841)
  - "Tracking issue for `X..`, `..X`, and `..=X` (`#![feature(half_open_range_patterns)]`)" [rust#67264](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67264#)
