# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting
Migrating back from [the hackmd](https://hackmd.io/XP0KTNosR52BVQ1nUyyITQ?edit)

## Action items
- Centril to comment on [floating point to integer casts can cause undefined behaviour #10184](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184)
        - recommended option from the POV of the summary maker and why :)
        - what options have been evaluated and what were the results
        - what options exist that have not been evaluated and what are the pros/cons
        - Not done yet.
- Niko to reach out to Aaron Hill about experimenting with the other approach to never type fallback
- simulacrum to write about “remove unnecessary unsafe block in unsafe function”
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69245
- josh to post a comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905 saying “can’t we just stabilize these names”?
## Upcoming design meetings
- [~~Feb 3 — Specialization infomercial (presented by Niko)~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/blob/master/design-meeting-minutes/2020-02-03-specialization-review.md)
- ~~Feb 10 — Ralf +~~ `~~UnsafeCell~~` ~~bugs (~~[~~#55005~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)~~,~~ [~~#68206~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68206)~~)~~
    - [Notes uploaded here (along with video)](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/blob/master/design-meeting-minutes/2020-02-10-References-and-dereferenceable.md)
    - **Question:** Would someone care to take a stab at “summarizing”? Maybe writing a comment on the MMIO in particular that summarized the impact there? — Niko will try
- ~~Feb 17 — (Niko is unavailable)~~
- March 9 —  mental health day, nothing scheduled
- March 16 — ffi-unwind
- March 23 — ?? (maybe sealed rust? I am reaching out to James Munns)
- March 31 — ??
- List of potential topics for March:
    - lang team procedures
    - Specification / sealed rust
    - Unsafe code guidelines — how to make progress
    - “Copy out of references” — focus on use cases and inter-related problems
        - `let foo: &Option<u32>; match foo { Some(x) => bar(x), None => ... }`
        - `fn bar(x: u32)`
            - `x` has type `&u32` which is annoying
        - Are there examples / use cases where the fix is more complex than inserting an `&` into a pattern?
    - 
    - 


## Shepherded item updates

**inline assembly (Amanieu, Josh)**

- conflict that we need to resolve: [project group creation RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2836#issuecomment-565269781) 
- two open RFCs:
    - deprecate existing ASM, move to LLVM ASM ([RFC 2843](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2843)) opened
    - Initial inline assembly RFC ([RFC 2850](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2850)) opened
- Update 2020-27-02: 
    - Amanieu updated RFC to include summaries from previous comments
    - Plan is to close the thread and open a new PR on the RFC repository using that new RFC and start fresh
        - a lot of discussion on the semantics of inline asm for “Rust abstract machine”
            - 1 sentence summary is that it’s the “same as an ffi call”
            - concrete difference is that it has a “really weird calling convention” (encompassing which values are fed in or read out through which registers
    - Or are we blocked on the project group RFC before doing that?
- Other updates:
    - Recently found some issues with type verification having to do with big endian and SIMD
    - Found most of the issues by working through the implementation, which is largely complete, working on tests presently.
    - RFC to rename `asm` to `llvm-asm` is in “please check your boxes mode”
- Observation:
    - most of the conversation didn’t take place on Github but rather Zulip
    - the project group repository was most useful for submitting PRs to collaboratively build RFCs
    - Amanieu: my impression is that the PG involved people involved mostly from the start of the PG, rather than the wider Rust community, they are more likely to arrive at the RFC thread
    - Josh: this may not be a perfect case study, Zulip might not be the most inviting for arbitrary community members, but maybe we should try to fix *that..?*
    - Felix: the archive system we use for Zulip is ungreat so I’d be a bit wary of that
    - Josh: GH and Zulip both have the property that we should try to summarize discussions into the RFC, going back to read the details is going to be difficult

**safe transmute (Ryan, Josh)**

- no updates.

**const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)**

- work towards RFC 2632 continues:
    - [PR 68847](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68847) permits one to create `impl const` blocks and invoke `const fn` trait methods on concrete types
- Removing the `qualify_min_const_fn` pass in favor of integrating with new const checker https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68940

**ffi-unwind (BatmanAod)**

- initial blog post supposed to be available ([see this PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/522/files)) but it doesn’t seem to be on the Inside Rust blog for some reason

**"dyn Trait" stuff (nikomatsakis)**

- Relevant issue: [rust-lang/rust#57893](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
- Relevant PR: [rust-lang/rust#66037](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66037)
- What the PR implemented:
    - Making `dyn Trait` not `dyn safe` if:
        - there is a dyn overlapping impl and 
        - the trait has associated non-functions
            - that do not have where `Self: Sized` (not implemented)
- Crater impact virtually negligible, but the 1 item we did identify is interesting
    - has to do with the `[TryStream](https://docs.rs/futures/0.3.1/futures/stream/trait.TryStream.html)` [trait](https://docs.rs/futures/0.3.1/futures/stream/trait.TryStream.html),  which is used roughly like this:
    trait StreamX {
        type Item;  
    }
    
    trait TryStreamX: StreamX  {
       type Ok;
       type Error;
    }
    
    impl<S, T, E> TryStreamX for S
        where S: ?Sized + StreamX<Item = Result<T, E>>
    {
        type Ok = T;
        type Error = E;
    }
- the crate in question has a `dyn TryStream` which is an error now
    - Why? The concern is that `S` in the above impl might (in the future) become
        - `dyn TryStreamX<Ok = A, Error = B> + StreamX<Item = Result<C, D>>`
    - in which case `type Ok` would be `A` from the default impl but `C` from the impl above
- I’m not sure if there is some path forward apart from breaking `dyn TryStream`, which is a bit of a shame
    - note that a trait alias is really what we *want* here
- other alternative that I haven’t tried to implement yet, but which I discussed before
    - in a dyn-overlapping impl, all associated items must be `default`
        - and compiler (for backwards compatibility) will add the `default` implicitly
            - (but user would not be permitted to specialize with their own impls, as boats noted)
        - this is to reflect that the compiler introduces its own impl
    - but impact on `TryStream` would be pretty severe here, I think
        - you wouldn’t be able to take `T: Stream<Item = Result<...>>`
        - you would not be able to do `T::Ok` 
- impact of existing PR
    - you cannot use `dyn TryStream` but you can do `fn foo<T: TryStream<..>>()>`
    - you could write `dyn Stream<Item = ..>`
- really this code wants to be a *trait alias* 
    - This would require trait aliases to support associated types, but that seems feasible
    - Trait alias semantics: “A Stream of Result<T, E> can be called a TryStream, where the associated types Ok and Error refer to T and E respectively”
- next step:
    - revisit the soundness hole and see if we can “weaponize” the `TryStream` example in a similar way
    - revisit the write-up covering the various options before us:
        - i.e., this change is modifying what dyn safety means, has very slight impact
            - concerns about the fact that “whether trait X is dyn safe depends on its impls”
        - other options might be introducing `default`, but this has potentially broader impact

**grammar (qmx)**

- Centril + petrochenkov have been working on parser architecture
    - simplified and unified item grammar for example in different contexts

`**never_type**` **(**`**!**`**) stabilization (nikomatsakis)**

- [PR #68350](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68350) remains open but we are [losing faith in the approach](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68350#issuecomment-579059372) that was initially suggested
- Problem is that a function like
    - `fn make_foo<T>() → Result<(), T> { Ok(()) }` is fundamentally fine
    - but if the `T` happened to “fall back” to `!`, we would issue a warning here
- Aaron1011 proposed a more aggressive lint that works across functions
    - Niko has stated he’d prefer a [more modular (intraprocedural) analysis](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68350#issuecomment-579120263)
## Shepherding proposals

None this week

## Triage

~~~~[**P-high issues**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
~~~~
- [~~`Pin` is unsound due to transitive effects of `CoerceUnsized`~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68015) [~~#68015~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68015)
    - no major updates, see [internals thread](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/the-pin-unsoundness-and-coerceunsized/11593)
- `[~~Pin~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)` [~~is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations rust-lang/rust#66544~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)
    - pending fix in [#68004](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68004)
        - now in FCP
- ~~Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object~~
    - (see above)

[**Nominated PRs**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

- [Permit attributes on 'if' expressions](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69201) #69201
    - Check your boxes?
    - scottmcm: What is the extent of allowing attributes on things in the parser?
    - centril: attributes are allowed on expressions in general *except* for this case
        - if you start parsing attributes, and it expects an item to follow, that could be an error
        - but attributes on operators *by themselves* is not a thing, you’d have to apply it before the left hand side (e.g., `#[foo] a + b` and not `a #[foo] + b` )
        - `let x = #[cfg(true)] 4 #[cfg(not(true))] 5;` does not work, though, so it’s not just “on expressions in general”.  I left a comment, but checked my box.
- `[mem::zeroed/uninit](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66059)`[: panic on types that do not permit zero-initialization](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66059) #66059
    - Check your boxes?
    - Transition plan: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66059#issuecomment-586734747
    - centril: what’s important to me is that we avoid a “patchwork”
    - josh: 
        - if we define the abstract model of Rust such that we say that “uninitialized memory” is an “specific but unknown value” (apart from “a special undefined value”)
    - josh:
        - I’m only saying that I’d like to have a discussion about how we model uninitialized memory
        - This overlaps safe transmute
        - Doesn’t necessarily block this decision *here* 
    - centril: how I understand is: “you don’t think we should be deciding here whether integers allow uninitialized bytes or not”
    - josh: correct. In this PR, we have:
        - “types that allow zeroed” XXX thisi sn’t 
        - “types that accept all bit patterns”
        - it may be that integers should continue to live in both categories (“every bit pattern is a valid integer”) indefinitely
        - things like bool/char *don’t* permit all bit patterns
    - centril: 
        - if we decide that integers *do not* allow uninitialized values, than `mem::uninit` should panic
        - if we decide that integers *do* allow uninitialized values, than `mem::uninit` should not panic
            - Josh: modulo “let’s not cause widespread breakage of existing code”
    - to recap:
        - right now, we are deciding that `mem::uninit` should panic when applied to a type whose validity invariant forbids uninitialized values
            - “where all bit patterns aren’t valid”, Josh says, though this may be a slightly different semantic depending on how we end up writing the spec
        - we are not deciding at this time* whether integers are in that set of types. In the current PR, mem::uninit on an integer type will not panic
- [Add lint for never type regressions](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68350) #68350
    - see notes above
    - revisit next week.
    let x: _ = try!(Decodable::decode()); // typeof(x) winds up getting inferred to `!
    
    foo::<_>(); // such that this `_` "falls back" to `!`
    `
    // foo is UB if `T` is `!`:
    fn foo<T>(input: u32) {
      let x = transmute::<fn() -> u32, fn() -> T>(input);
      x();
    }
    
    fn foo<T>() -> Result<u32, T> { Ok(22) }
    - No new developments
- [Remove "unnecessary `unsafe` block in `unsafe` fn" lint](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69245) #69245
    - If we stop linting 
    - That would leave us in a state where:
        - you might nif
    unsafe fn foo() {
      bar(); // you might infer that `bar` is a safe function
      unsafe { baz(); }
    }
    
    unsafe fn bar() { }
    unsafe fn baz() { }
    - if we wished to avoid that concern, we could:
        - “opt-in” by adding an unsafe into some existing unsafe scope
        - create a distinct lint (`unsafe-in-unsafe-fn`) that warns about 
            - `#![deny(unsafe_in_unsafe)]` and, possibly, `#![allow(unused_unsafe)]`
    - don’t want to have a sharp transition from “warn against doing this” to “warn if you don’t do it”
        - providing people with a transition plan feels better
        - stop warning, give a way to opt-in, and eventually start warning
        - centril: agreed, seems like maybe we’re over complicating things
            - if we were going to tweak things, I would consider the conditional behavior (“if there are any unsafe blocks, then lint for missing ones”)
            - probably not too hard to implement
            - would be ok as a transition-ary step, but not as a permanent sol’n
        - nikomatsakis: not a great transition plan unless we have some way to “opt in” to a new lint that will tell you where they are missing
        - simulacrum: my main constraint is that we should not disable the existing lint without some way to get warnings when you have inconsistent unsafe usage
            - I would be fine with leaving the PR as is (remove the old lint) plus a new lint (that is allow by default to start)
    - making the transition “cargo fixable” would help regardless
    - niko: also true that editions are the way we signal people about these kinds of changes
    - josh: but they shouldn’t have to wait until the new edition
    - niko: yes, they should be able to opt-in early
    - centril: my concern with just adding a new lint is that people won’t know to change the lints
    - scottmcm: right but we can flip the defaults on the edition boundary and encourage folks to change earlier
    - simulacrum to summarize and consolidate the options here

[**Nominated issues**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)

- [~~Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref #55005~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
    - had a [design meeting](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/blob/master/design-meeting-minutes/2020-02-10-References-and-dereferenceable.md) but didn’t reach a firm conclusion
    - **next step:** somebody needs to write up the implications of that meeting for this issue in a clear way
- [~~floating point to integer casts can cause undefined behaviour #10184~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184)
    - [last time we talked](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184#issuecomment-559538629), we concluded that it made sense to
        - adopt saturated semantics as the default
        - maybe offer a `-Z` flag to opt out for a time
        - there has been plenty of discussion in the meantime
        - how do we go forward here?
            - a summary might be an amazing contribution --niko
    - Centril will leave comment (see action items)
- `[is_x86_feature_detected!("avx512f")](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905)` [fails to build on nightly #68905](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905) 
    - we accepted things we should not have on stable ([known issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/stdarch/issues/667))
        - we fixed this in https://github.com/rust-lang/stdarch/issues/667
        - but there were extant crates that relied on it (at least 1)
    - josh: should we just stabilize some of these options?
    - pnkfelix: but burntsushi [mentioned](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905#issuecomment-590832105) “[we might want to stabilize mmx](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905#issuecomment-590832105)” [specifically](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905#issuecomment-590832105)
            - mati865 [states that it could cause misoptimization](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68905#issuecomment-590921503) as discussed in https://github.com/rust-lang/stdarch/issues/823
    - josh: I don’t know why feature detection alone is a problem, but I mainly think we should stabilize the ones people are *using* 
        - also not having intrinsics is not a reason not to permit *detection* 
    - [avx512 intrinsics are not implemented yet](https://github.com/rust-lang/stdarch/issues/310)
    - centril: a while back we closed something related to CPUID.. seems like it would’ve been useful, does anyone know why we did this?
    - josh: I think we closed it for inactivity
    - josh to post a comment saying “maybe we can just stabilize these names..?”

[**Nominated RFCs**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

- RFC for unsafe blocks in unsafe fn [#2585](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2585)
    - still pending the actions we discussed on [2020-01-23](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/blob/master/minutes/2020-01-23.md): 
    - Resolved:
        - Remove the existing lint
        - Add a allow-by-default lint for unsafe code in an unsafe fn without an unsafe function
        - Write a comment on #2585 that summarizes the conversation from meeting

[**rfcbot pending list**](https://rfcbot.rs/)

- items to discuss this meeting:
    - RFC Elide Array Size stalled since [Dec 2018](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - various pending concerns:
            - general-value-inference ([#2545 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545#issuecomment-449146388)) — centril
            - rfc-is-vague-or-maybe-niko-is-just-lazy ([#2545 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545#issuecomment-449134514)) — niko
            - state-contextual-constraints-up-front ([#2545 (comment)](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545#issuecomment-477941629)) — felix
        - move to postpone?
        - goal:
            - want to write something like this
                - `static X: [u32; _] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];`
            - would be a change in precedent against “global type inference”
                - already have made step in this direction with `impl Trait` 
        - one possibility:
            - say that we will permit `_` in “some places in the types of statics/constants”
                - we can say e.g. any value position, to limit interaction with `i32` and `!` fallback
            - but we do require that there is a DAG so that the type of each static/constant can be fully inferred before those who reference it are type-checked
            - this would permit future expansion in theory to permit `_` in other places if we wanted it
        - Niko’s thought:
            - we should close as postponed and state that we might prefer a proposal like that :)
        - The `_` is in its own infcx so it would need some work to get `_ == 2`
    let x: [u8; _] = [0, 1];
    - Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns #2632 ([fcp comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632#issuecomment-481395097))
        - As far as I know we are permitting experimentation and implementation to go through here
        - Can we merge the RFC in an experimental state? How can we best reflect this status?
    - merge: [**Introduce the ASM project group (rust-lang/rfcs#2836)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2836#issuecomment-565269781)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)

