# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date 2020-09-28

## Attendance

* Team members: Josh, boats, scott
* Others: simulacrum, areredify, connor horman, Lokathor

## Before meeting checklist

* [ ] Update the project board with new proposals
* [ ] Update the project board with new RFCs

## Pending proposals
  - "MCP: Rust-style `#[inline]` attribute." [lang-team#56](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/56)
      - Closed

## Project board review

Review the [Lang team project board](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2) and get updates
  - Re-review ! and fallback, and RFC 2229, with Niko present

## Nominated RFCs
  - No nominated RFCs this time.

## P-high issues on rust-lang/rust
  - "Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object" [rust#57893](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)

## Nominated PRs and issues on rust-lang/rust
  - "Lint for unused borrows as part of `UNUSED_MUST_USE`" [rust#76894](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76894)
  - "passes: `check_attr` on more targets" [rust#77015](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/77015)

## New meeting proposal

Unsafe Code Guidelines (UCG) group needs a design meeting slot in the future, to discuss a collection of small proposals.
- Lokathor to file issue and get it on the lang team board
