# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

[Recording available](https://youtu.be/9RC8su7AxhY)

## Action item
- Niko to reach out to wg-grammar around writing up a “what is status” thing
- scott to post comment on “elide array size” RFC (done)
- 
## Agenda
- Add new MCPs and meeting proposals to the [Lang Team Project Board](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2)
- Review [newly created RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [Lang Team Project Board:](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2)
    - Active items
    - Major Change Proposals
    - Meeting Proposals
- Review [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [Nominated PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
- Review [Nominated RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [rfcbot pending list](https://rfcbot.rs/)


## Notes from meeting:

**async foundations update: On streams and lending streams**


- there are some problems that arise here that are general problems for Rust
- adding helper methods to `Stream`
- there are coherence issues that arise if you have
    -  `impl LendingStream for impl Stream`
    - and `impl<L: LendingStream> LendingStream for Box<L>`
    - and `impl<S: Stream> Stream for Box<S>`
- `impl<I, L> Stream for L where L: LendingStream<Item<``'``a> = I>` (“the lifetime of the item (`'``a`) doesn’t depend on the lifetime of the LendingStream”)
    - This could avoid someof the coherence issues

**MCPs**


- Going to look for liaisons not in lang team
- Going to post warnings on older MCPs that we will close if we *can’t* find a liaison
- Leave a comment if you are interested

**stabilize ptr_offset_from #74238** 


- Undefined behavior to request an offset from two unrelated pointers

**Tracking issue for "implicit named arguments for formatting macros"** #67984 

Some relevant issues:

- You should be able to panic with arbitrary values
- You should be able to panic with literal strings, at least some of the time
    - i.e., what if it contains `{foo}`
- Should be able to avoid losing functionality compared to the current system
    - so people can always use the new system
- `fmt::Arguments::as_str()`: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/74442
- Niko’s proposal for “sense of this meeting”
    - We are in favor of making this transition as part of an Edition change
    - We would like to see a proposal that
        - enables the new-style references
        - preserves existing capabilities, possibly with a more explicit syntax
        - can be automatically transitioned across edition boundary

**2021 Edition draft RFC**


- Wanted to highlight the [draft RFC proposal](https://hackmd.io/jJflujmLS_-sFPUkYo417g) that nikomatsakis created with Steve, definitely impacts the lang team’s work.
- Related to idiom lints:
    - Do we need a transition period? 
    - Not really, because you have to opt-in to the new edition

**Tracking issue for RFC 2582, `&raw [mut | const] $place` (raw_ref_op) #64490**


- Niko would like to stabilize `raw_ref!` macro
- Ralf had [examples of people using it](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64490#issuecomment-657089537) and said they would be willing to prepare a stabilization PR


