# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

[Recording available](https://youtu.be/WB1EywAs0I4)

## Action item
- Niko to reach out to wg-grammar around writing up a “what is status” thing
- Niko to prep a write-up for [auto-trait-lifetime interactions](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64552)
- scott to post comment on “elide array size” RFC
- Josh to invite Ryan to present state of safe transmute
- Felix to investigate https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66740 and https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66741 before next meeting
- Niko to prepare a meeting proposal for WF checks on type parameters 
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69741
- Josh to write a comment [+T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting: Discussion-about-https://githu](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/T-Lang-Meeting-Current-meeting-Discussion-about-httpsgithu-nRfrSxCbfeo9q7fEYogZQ#:h2=Discussion-about-https://githu) 
- Felix to analyze https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66740 and form an opinion.
- Niko to write a comment discussing the idea of adding raw pointer methods to `AtomicUse` to make it *possible* to correct https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005.
    - Reminder: another “help wanted” lang-team proposal raw pointer methods?
- Niko to comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545 to cancel FCP and encourage moving to MCP process to consider revitalizing. 
    - Also close some older FCPs and consider re-opening them.
## Agenda
- Add new MCPs and meeting proposals to the [Lang Team Project Board](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2)
- Review [Lang Team Project Board:](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2)
    - Active items
    - Major Change Proposals
    - Meeting Proposals
- Review [P-high issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [Nominated PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)
- Review [newly created RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [Nominated RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
- Review [rfcbot pending list](https://rfcbot.rs/)


## Notes from meeting:


https://github.com/rust-dev-tools/fmt-rfcs/issues/152


**Update to inline assembly**

Read [comment here](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/20#issuecomment-644324937)

**Update to FFI project group** 

Read [comment here](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/19#issuecomment-642951381)

https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/19


Example:


    fn foo(x: &mut u32) {
      *x += 1; // under stacked borrow, this assigned can be moved below the call to bar
      bar();
    }
    
    fn bar() { }

**Update to const evaluation**

[Read comment here](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/22#issuecomment-644326659)
 
Josh points out that inline assembly has a “const operand”, is there an interaction here?

**Discussion about https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/73191**

One challenge is that the name resolution code doesn’t (today) have to look at the RHS of a type alias, and it knows that `type Foo = …` only introduces a name in the type namespace (no doubt relevant to resolving some cycles).

Common use case for `type` is to “pre-specify” generic types:


    struct Foo<T>(T);
    
    type Bar = Foo<u32>;
    
    Bar(22) // doesn't work today

Can you use them in patterns? [Not today](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2018&gist=6e15f976dc2491a5839813a9ee250e0e).


    struct Foo(u32);
    
    type Bar = Foo;
    
    fn gimme(x: Bar) {
        match x {
            Bar(22) => (),
            Bar(_) => (),
        }
    }
    
    fn main() { }

Next steps:

- Loop in petrochenkov to get their opinion.
- Maybe move to a MCP to prototype the new process?

**Discussion around RFC 2545**

- https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545
- Can we unstick this?
- Josh: I’d be ok with closing this and encouraging folks to open a change  proposal with the underlying motivation
    - Niko to cancel FCP and encourage opening an MCP.

**Topic: talk about moving away from Zoom**

- https://www.npr.org/2020/06/12/876351501/zoom-acknowledges-it-suspended-activists-accounts-at-china-s-request
- https://twitter.com/nicoagrant/status/1268020841054269440
- Requirements and what features to do we make use of?
    - Screen sharing, especially sharing a specific window (and not the whole screen).
    - Cloud recording - upload to YouTube
    - Transcription?
    - “Working” with larger numbers of participants
    - Ideally, working web-only client (including in Firefox)
- What are technical problems with Zoom
    - No web-only client
    - Paid account required for features we use
    - Hard if no Mozilla employee is around to do recording
- Alternatives:
    - jitsi hosted instance?

