# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting

## Action items
- Niko to reach out to wg-grammar around writing up a “what is status” thing
- Niko to prep a write-up for [auto-trait-lifetime interactions](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64552)
- scott to post comment on “elide array size” RFC
- Josh to write a post for Inside Rust and update calendar: meeting time changing, for both design meeting and triage meeting
    - Josh to send Doodle poll link to Lokathor and ecstatic-morse
- Niko to try to get experimentation approval for inline assembly PR
- Mark to write the comment on #41875 and ping to fcp close
## Upcoming design meetings

Drew up an [April/May meeting schedule](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2020/04/10/lang-team-design-meetings.html):

- ~~April 20 —~~ [~~Edition planning~~](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Rust-2021-Edition-Planning--AyOauNWGN4Ly6XZlg4mMG9bUAg-MpuBJRy026HbUUWmFMtai)
~~~~- ~~April 27 — Type aliases~~
- May 4 — Try blocks, try traits, functions that try, oh my!
- May 11 — Process, introducing a “stage 0” process a la [this blog post](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/12/03/aic-improving-the-pre-rfc-process/)
    - maybe a generalization of the MCP RFC
[](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/12/03/aic-improving-the-pre-rfc-process/)
List of potential topics for May:

    - ~~how to deal with type aliases and bounds~~
        - ~~e.g.~~ [~~Perform WF-check on `type`s with no type parameters #69741~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/69741)
    - lang team procedures
    - Unsafe code guidelines — how to make progress
    - “Copy out of references” — focus on use cases and inter-related problems
        - `let foo: &Option<u32>; match foo { Some(x) => bar(x), None => ... }`
        - `fn bar(x: u32)`
            - `x` has type `&u32` which is annoying
        - Are there examples / use cases where the fix is more complex than inserting an `&` into a pattern?
## Doodle poll update
- Time slots:
    - Have answers for 5/6 members of lang team plus regular attendees
    - 1 slot where everyone who answered can attend (10am US Pacific on Wednesday)
        - use this for the design meeting?
    - Move from Monday at noon to Wednesday to 10am US Pacific
- Triage we can discuss on Zulip
## Shepherded item updates

**inline assembly (Amanieu, Josh)**

- Closed and re-opened the `asm!` RFC to summarize prior thread
    - New RFC is https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2873
    - Collecting feedback that was not included in the RFC
- Would be great to enable people to experiment on nightly
- Maybe “FCP merge” on the PR to give T-lang approval for experimentation?
    - Major change for compiler team: https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/280
    - Niko would prefer to check his box for “experimenting” without having fully understood the RFC, in particular.
    - Note that this does not mean that the implementation details are approved, that’s compiler team’s job.

**safe transmute (Ryan, Josh)**

- conversations happening in #project-safe-transmute on Zulip
- 2020-04-16: current plans are working towards a “much reduced” proposal:
    - what is the minimal trait (or set of traits) to allow some of this to live in libs
    - still in brainstorming state

**const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)**

- [RFC 2342, "Allow `if` and `match` in constants"](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/49146#)
    - [Oli summarized the current status.](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/49146#issuecomment-614012476)
    - T-Lang needs to decide whether we want to stabilize with the current semantics around `Option::<NeedsDrop>::None` or to stabilize a version that falls back to type-based analysis when it sees a branch or loop.
    - Note: the “mixed scheme” is just an optimization, the end result will be the same as the “full value based analysis” for end users
    - 2020-04-23 
        - Wrote [stabilization report](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/49146). I think further discussion occurs during FCP? I’m not 100% sure of the process, so someone else should propose to merge if that is indeed the next step.
        - Implemented “mixed-scheme” optimization to reduce time spent const-checking.  https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/71330
    - 2020-04-30
        - Currently in FCP


- Question: why not just actually evaluate it and see what you got?
    - Answer: would be a post-monomorphization error
- Alternatives:
    - you could do something *very* conservative that treats any “non-trivial” control-flow as “maybe interior mutability”
- Question: Is there a relationship to an analysis that figures out whether the behavior depends on the values of the generic type parameters? That could be useful for other reasons.
    - Answer: you could do that, but what would you do with the result?
- Question: Interaction with match patterns and the like?
    - In short, optimizing for accepting more constants does mean you’re exposing more *details* of what the const does, in some sense.
    - There is something user hostile about complex analyses that are hard to explain.
    - Indeed, it is really hard to explain to users.

**ffi-unwind (BatmanAod****)**

- 2020-04-02: Working towards RFC
- 2020-04-09: [BatmanAod opened a PR with draft of RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/project-ffi-unwind/pull/28)
- 2020-04-30: 
    - The only question is whether to make it “defined behavior” if a foreign except propagates across a “C unwind” boundary (and there is no `catch_unwind`)
        - Advantage: we probably want to support this
        - Disadvantage: it will require a shim to catch C++ exceptions — this is probably necessary later, unless we reverse the “two ABIs” proposal
    - Interesting downside of the “two ABI” design
        - If you have a C function but it takes callbacks, then there could potentially be pressure to make callbacks into “C unwind” and the function too (for flexibility)
            - but note that this is not a trivial change, necessarily, and indeed many C libraries are not ready for this to happen “just because”
        - True, but just a downside of this approach.

**"dyn Trait" stuff (nikomatsakis)**

- No progress
- Relevant issue: [rust-lang/rust#57893](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
- Relevant PR: [rust-lang/rust#66037](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66037)
- What the PR implemented:
    - Making `dyn Trait` not `dyn safe` if:
        - there is a dyn overlapping impl and 
        - the trait has associated non-functions
            - that do not have where `Self: Sized` (not implemented)
- Crater impact virtually negligible, but the 1 item we did identify is interesting
    - has to do with the `[TryStream](https://docs.rs/futures/0.3.1/futures/stream/trait.TryStream.html)` [trait](https://docs.rs/futures/0.3.1/futures/stream/trait.TryStream.html),  which is used roughly like this:
    trait StreamX {
        type Item;  
    }
    
    trait TryStreamX: StreamX  {
       type Ok;
       type Error;
    }
    
    impl<S, T, E> TryStreamX for S
        where S: ?Sized + StreamX<Item = Result<T, E>>
    {
        type Ok = T;
        type Error = E;
    }
- the crate in question has a `dyn TryStream` which is an error now
    - Why? The concern is that `S` in the above impl might (in the future) become
        - `dyn TryStreamX<Ok = A, Error = B> + StreamX<Item = Result<C, D>>`
    - in which case `type Ok` would be `A` from the default impl but `C` from the impl above
- I’m not sure if there is some path forward apart from breaking `dyn TryStream`, which is a bit of a shame
    - note that a trait alias is really what we *want* here
- other alternative that I haven’t tried to implement yet, but which I discussed before
    - in a dyn-overlapping impl, all associated items must be `default`
        - and compiler (for backwards compatibility) will add the `default` implicitly
            - (but user would not be permitted to specialize with their own impls, as boats noted)
        - this is to reflect that the compiler introduces its own impl
    - but impact on `TryStream` would be pretty severe here, I think
        - you wouldn’t be able to take `T: Stream<Item = Result<...>>`
        - you would not be able to do `T::Ok` 
- impact of existing PR
    - you cannot use `dyn TryStream` but you can do `fn foo<T: TryStream<..>>()>`
    - you could write `dyn Stream<Item = ..>`
- really this code wants to be a *trait alias* 
    - This would require trait aliases to support associated types, but that seems feasible
    - Trait alias semantics: “A Stream of Result<T, E> can be called a TryStream, where the associated types Ok and Error refer to T and E respectively”
- next step:
    - revisit the soundness hole and see if we can “weaponize” the `TryStream` example in a similar way
    - revisit the write-up covering the various options before us:
        - i.e., this change is modifying what dyn safety means, has very slight impact
            - concerns about the fact that “whether trait X is dyn safe depends on its impls”
        - other options might be introducing `default`, but this has potentially broader impact

**grammar (qmx)**

- Centril + petrochenkov have been working on parser architecture
    - simplified and unified item grammar for example in different contexts
    - Outline module loading will soon be driven by expansion, allowing:
    #[cfg(FALSE)]
    mod foo {
       mod bar; // `foo/bar.rs` doesn't exist, but no error regardless.
    }
- maybe stalled out?
    - can we maybe write up a description of how far we got, what the problems were
- 2020-04-02: Some discussion, some work started up again
    - Updating grammar definition to reflect the actual grammar that’s implemented in rustc

**never_type**` **(**`**!**`**) stabilization (nikomatsakis)**

- 2020-03-31: Niko left [detailed comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66173#issuecomment-606836855) with an alternative proposal

`**#[instruction_set]**` attribute for per-function instruction set changes

- pnkfelix to act as liaison and explore
- current status: investigation of some of the questions we raised below
- 2020-04-30: awaiting response to the comment that we made: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2867#issuecomment-618623702
## Shepherding proposals

None this week

## [**P-high issues**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)

~~~~[~~**`Pin` is unsound due to transitive effects of `CoerceUnsized`**~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68015) [~~**#68015**~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68015)

- no major updates, see [internals thread](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/the-pin-unsoundness-and-coerceunsized/11593)

[~~**Lifetime bounds in auto trait impls prevent trait from being implemented on generators #64552**~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64552)

- P-high but not a soundness problem, *mostly* an impl issue, though it is somewhat blocked on having a nice way to describe region solving
- Maybe Niko should prep a writeup or something
    struct Foo<'a, 'b: 'a> { }
- Skipped, no writeup

[~~**Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object**~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)  **#57893**

- (see above)
## [Nominated PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

[**clarify interaction of pin drop guarantee and panics #71607**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/71607)

- ping cramertj and/or prep for next time

[**remove `&'static` bound from type_id intrinsic (RFC 1849) #71553**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/71553)

- footgun, no clear use case
- **Consensus:** we should close this and fcp close [#41875](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/41875)
    - Mark to write the comment and ping to fcp close

[**Accept tuple.0.0 as tuple indexing (take 2) #71322**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/71322) ****

- lexer produces `0.0` as a floating point token
    - if parser sees `.` and a floating point token, it will break this apart
- backwards compatibility implications because procedural macros could observe the floating point token
    - we could in theory use an edition or other opt-in thing to change the behavior here
- ultimately, we are happy to let petrochenkov and dtolnay make a call here
    - Niko will write a comment to signal that we’re happy with this approach if petrochenkov/dtolnay are

[**Perform WF-check on `type`s with no type parameters #69741**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69741) 

- blocked on meeting April 27
- Schedule a meeting for May-ish
## [Nominated issues](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)

[**Warn on useless bindings like `let v2 = v1.sort();` #71432**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/71432) 

- discussed briefly last week during triage, but didn’t get back to it in meeting itself
- seems lintable (right?), namely on a binding with inferred `()` (“unit”) type; and then adding explicit `: ()` annotation is way to silence the lint.
    - (also, binding a generic type and then instantiating with unit should not trigger lint; which is fine, since we do not lint post-monomorphization)
- Josh to write a comment approving this

[**Async execution can get lost during refactoring #71368**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/71368) 

[**Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref #55005**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)

- still blocked on resolution
- main two options:
    - add raw pointer methods and encourage folks to migrate (possibly deprecate, but maybe not, the existing ones)
    - add some annotation that signals no optimization for given parameters

[**repr(packed) allows invalid unaligned loads #27060**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/27060) ****

- Q: would raw references (which are on our trajectory), could they resolve this?
- A: we do not have a source-level operator to actually *take* a raw reference. (i.e. we do not have `&raw <expr>`
- I think the complaint with `&unsafe x` is that there was the request to do `unsafe foo()` without needing braces.
- One possibility would be to make an RFC to reserve `officially-undefined` as a keyword and use that for all klunky syntax.
- Niko proposes that we do not bikeshed this and specifically stabilize a clunky syntax for proc macros etc to use (e.g. `$raw_borrow()`).
    - Felix notes that we could have a dual to `r#foo` raw identifers, where we have a prefix that specifically denotes “this is a reserved word”. e.g. `r#$asm`.
        - Niko notes that this is a pattern of explicit primitive operations, which encourage userspace experimentation and allow coming to bikeshed with experience.
        - Just-created thread in zulip for expanding `foo#bar`: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213817-t-lang/topic/Making.20new.20.60_.23.60.20prefixes.20not.20a.20breaking.20change
## [Nominated RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)
- [~~RFC: Add a new `#[instruction_set(...)]` attribute for supporting per-function instruction set changes~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2867) ~~#2867~~
    - some questions about “what kinds of guarantees”
    - if this is very narrowly targeted, is that a problem? I feel ok about that. —Niko
    - feels like it could be a “implementation defined” sort of feature that rustc supports
    - would it be a kind of hint? can a compiler ignore it if it’s a pain to support?
        - motivation from RFC seems to be about code-size and optimization
        - might be a pain for a cranelift backend, even if it’s easy for LLVM
        - pnkfelix: might have ABI implications
    - Niko: I’d be ok with  “cranelift backend doesn’t support this, you get an error” if it can’t be a hint
        - centril: me not so much
    - pnkfelix might take a look and act as a liaison
- RFC for unsafe blocks in unsafe fn [#2585](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2585)
    - now in FCP
## [rfcbot pending list](https://rfcbot.rs/)
- items to discuss this meeting:
    - RFC Elide Array Size stalled since [Dec 2018](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2545#issuecomment-449133335)
        - discuss today with Josh
        - `const C: [u8; _] = [1, 2, 3]`
        - in a `let` you can do `let c = [1, 2, 3]` no problem
        - in a `const`, there are some concerns:
            - easy to change the type of the const (each time you add an entry to the list)
            - on the other hand, many constants are private
            - otoh this is true for all items
                - yes but this is particularly annoying :)
        - main debate:
            - const generics would allow this
                - this was raised in 2018 but we still don’t have const generics
            - this was intended as a “let’s do this and we’ll be able to generalize later”
        - what about let?
            - Niko: I would want it to be specific to const/static because otherwise it’ll be more invasive and it doesn’t buy as much for a `let`
        - scott: can we make this a kind of “impl constant”, so that the value is not known until “monomorphization time”?
            - more complex to impl, but plausible
            - wouldn’t impact the API
            - but what syntax would we want??
                - `impl usize`, of course! :cry:
        - 
    - Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns #2632 ([fcp comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632#issuecomment-481395097))
        - As far as I know we are permitting experimentation and implementation to go through here
        - Can we merge the RFC in an experimental state? How can we best reflect this status?
    - merge: [**Stabilize the `#[alloc_error_handler]` attribute (for no_std + liballoc) (rust-lang/rust#66740)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66740#issuecomment-558182950)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [alexcrichton](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/alexcrichton)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm) 
    - merge: [**Make `handle_alloc_error` default to panic (for no_std + liballoc) (rust-lang/rust#66741)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66741#issuecomment-558184215)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [Kimundi](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Kimundi)  [KodrAus](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/KodrAus)  [alexcrichton](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/alexcrichton)  [joshtriplett](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/joshtriplett)  [pnkfelix](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/pnkfelix) 
    - Alex’s concerns: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66741#issuecomment-579652668

