# T-Lang Meeting: Current meeting
Migrating back from [the hackmd](https://hackmd.io/XP0KTNosR52BVQ1nUyyITQ?edit)

## Action items
- niko to post summary comment on turbofish RFC and postpone
        - update: thought about it, didn't act yet because pondering
- centril to comment on concerns re: inline asm [**rust-lang/rfcs#2836**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2836#issuecomment-565269781)
    - should we have a follow-up meeting?
- ~~N~~~~iko to schedule a “specialization infomercial” design meeting~~
- ~~Niko to schedule with Ralf a design meeting on arc-drop~~
- Centril to comment on [floating point to integer casts can cause undefined behaviour #10184](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184)
- Felix to comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68164
- Niko to comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68129
- Niko to comment on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68206
- Centril to comment on #45600 and do PR too perhaps if he feels like it:)
## Upcoming design meetings
- Feb 3 — Specialization infomercial (presented by Niko)
- Feb 10 — Ralf + `UnsafeCell` bugs ([#55005](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005), [#68206](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68206))
- Feb 17 — (Niko is unavailable)
- Feb 24 — ffi-unwind working group (we’d like to start some pre-discussion)

One thing not covered here that I want to do:

- Plan out meetings for all hands
    - I want to do this more rapidly anyway, let’s discuss async in #t-lang a bit perhaps
## Shepherded item updates

~~**inline assembly (Amanieu, Josh)**~~

- lots happening here, expect 1st RFC show up soon
    - [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2836#issuecomment-565269781) to create project group in FCP
    - deprecate existing ASM, move to LLVM ASM ([RFC 2843](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2843)) opened
    - Initial inline assembly RFC ([RFC 2850](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2850)) opened

~~**safe transmute (Ryan, Josh)**~~

- no updates.

~~**const evaluation (ecstatic-morse)**~~

- PR implementing syntax for const bounds landed
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/67820

**ffi-unwind (BatmanAod)**

- held a big meeting and tried to go back over everything, [notes here](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/ffi-unwind-2020-01-13--AsgPvVmbOAZwTgePBeTC1YnHAg-agituL322N0qRsCbcnn7D)
- narrowed mostly down to 2 options
- BatmanAod to post an explainer giving general background (which we all likely know)
- Plan is to convert those unruly notes above into something more understandable and post it
    - hope to have some async conversation before
- Only date when Amanieu, acfolzer, Niko, + Kyle were available was Feb 24, so scheduled design meeting for then

**"dyn Trait" stuff (nikomatsakis)**

- Relevant issue: [rust-lang/rust#57893](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/57893)
- In the PR, we did a crater run of a new idea for a minimal temporary fix
    - [lqd was so good as to do some preliminary analysis of results here](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/66037#issuecomment-575269554)
- Promising, relatively few regressions, but still have to work through the ones that there are, haven’t had time to look into that

**grammar (qmx)**

- no update

`**never_type**` **(**`**!**`**) stabilization (nikomatsakis)**

- llogic and I had a pair programming session and [started mocking up the lint](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66173)
- feeling reasonably confident we’ll have a nice solution
## Shepherding proposals

None this week

## Triage

[~~**P-high issues**~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AP-high+label%3AT-lang)

- `[~~Pin~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)` [~~is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations rust-lang/rust#66544~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)
    - pending fix in [#68004](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68004)
- ~~Coherence can be bypassed by an indirect impl for a trait object~~
    - (see above)

[~~**Nominated PRs**~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

- [permit negative impls for non-auto traits #68004](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68004)
    - (see above)
    - Discuss if we have spare time.
    - Some previous similar conversation: https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/pondering-negative-trait-promises/8265
- [~~Selectively disable sanitizer instrumentation~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68164) ~~#68164~~
    - We have had unstable support for sanitizer for some time, [tracking issue #39699,](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/39699) [implemented in #38699](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/38699)
    - No RFC or other formal procedure
    - This PR adds a (feature-gated, natch) attribute `#[no_sanitize]` that can be used to exclude a function from sanitizer
    - Question for the moment:
        - Should we encourage an RFC? What procedure do we want here, if any?
    - Resolved (Felix to comment):
        - We do not want this to generate errors, would prefer that it silently disables inline and perhaps issues a lint
        - Would like to see documenting in the unstable guide
        - Bikeshed: `#[sanitize(never)]` instead?
        - Not requiring an RFC at this time but it might be worth thinking about one that 
- [~~Correct inference of primitive operand type behind binary operation #~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68129)~~68129~~
    - Currently our type-checker has some specialized logic for `a + b` and other such operands:
        - We first create a trait obligation to prove `A: Add<B, Output = R>`
        - But we also hard-code some expectations — in particular, if the input types are both known to be builtin types, then we can require that `A = B = R`
            - this basically hard-codes the patterns of the impls
            - in ways that the trait solver doesn’t presently figure out on its own
            - needed for stuff like `let x: usize = 2 + 4`, since it forces 2 and 4 to be usize instead of letting them fallback to `i32` as we would otherwise do
        - This PR extends those expectations to also work for arguments of types like `&{integral}` and not just `{integral}`
            - `let x: usize = &22 + &44`
            - What happens if you write `let x: usize = 22 + &44`?
            - What happens if you write `let x: &usize = 22 + 44`?
            - `let a = 22; let x: usize = a + 44;`
        - Resolved: (Niko)
            - FCP to merge
            - Extend with this test ([a](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2018&gist=431b1d87d4a5e8a895b86d3f365cbc43)) and also add tests for other binary operator categories and cases where the expected type is not provided
- [~~Stabilize `#[repr(transparent)]` on `enum`s in Rust 1.42.0 #~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/68122)~~68122~~
    - Check your boxes?

[**Nominated issues**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang+)

- [~~Mutex and RwLock are unsound in presence of discriminant elision~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68206) ~~#68206~~
    - Also discussed in [zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213817-t-lang/topic/UnsafeCell.3CT.3E.20exposes.20niche(s).20of.20T.3B.20should.20it.3F.20.2368206)
    - `&Option<Mutex<bool>>`
    - Not a problem for e.g. `Option<Cell<&T>>`
        - (but both above cases end up boiling down to something like `Option<UnsafeCell<T>>`, and whether niches within `T` are allowed to be exposed to the `Option`’s discrimant.)
    - In some sense, `UnsafeCell` imparting “only” shared-mutability (and hence orthogonal to niches) is clean and orthogonal but not in a deep way, and it creates other problems in the formal semantics (as Ralf noted)
    - Maybe we want some sort of “generic” way to make things opaque to niches?
        - `#[repr(no_niche)]`?
        - `union` has this effect (single-variant), but it imposes other limitations
    - niko: at surface, problems here resemble ones with `&UnsafeCell<T>` and dereferenceability. It seems like the key has to do with threading, though it’s worth noting that `RefCell` (which is not send or sync) also has to be careful in the same way:
    let x = opt_refcell.borrow_mut();
    let x: &mut = x;
    rayon::fork(|| use(x), || inspect(refcell));
    - Key Ralf comment (link?) indicates that `UnsafeCell` propagating niches makes things really complicated, and it’s hard to identify what the “one thing” that `UnsafeCell` does would be
    - We called it `#[repr(transparent)]`, does that have implications for niches, is this backtracking on that promise?
        - (Zulip discussion has some links)
        - `Option<Cell<bool>>` is considered FFI safe but it would now change size
            - and it would also no longer be considered FFI safe
        - Still, this is a soundness fix.
    - Resolved: (Niko)
        - We are going to make `UnsafeCell` inhibit niches.
- [~~Pattern errors are too imprecise and should be removed in favor of MIR borrowck~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/45600) ~~#45600~~
    - Should we allow e.g.?
    struct Foo(String, String);
    fn x(f: Foo) {
        match f {
            Foo(a, ref b) => {} 
        }
    }
    - Resolved: (Centril to comment)
        - Yes! We should! We need to make more tests.
            - It should remain an error to move fields out of a type that has Drop logic.
        - Centril will make PR, r? @matthewjasper
- [`Pin` is unsound due to transitive effects of `CoerceUnsized` #68015](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/68015)
    - split off from the other `Pin` issue
- [~~Pin~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)~~`~~ [~~is unsound due to rogue Deref/DerefMut implementations #66544~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66544)
    - see above
- [~~Arc::drop has a (potentially) dangling shared ref #55005~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005)
    - meeting planned for Feb 10
- [~~floating point to integer casts can cause undefined behaviour #10184~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184)
    - [last time we talked](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/10184#issuecomment-559538629), we concluded that it made sense to
        - adopt saturated semantics as the default
        - maybe offer a `-Z` flag to opt out for a time
        - there has been plenty of discussion in the meantime
        - how do we go forward here?
            - a summary might be an amazing contribution --niko
    - Centril will leave comment asking for a summary of:
        - recommended option from the POV of the summary maker and why :)
        - what options have been evaluated and what were the results
        - what options exist that have not been evaluated and what are the pros/cons
        - Not done yet.

[**Nominated RFCs**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AI-nominated+label%3AT-lang)

- [~~Calling methods on generic parameters of const fns~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632)
    - We can continue with nightly experimentation without the RFC merged.
        - Experimentation is happening.
    - Want another meeting? (Monday, 17/18:00 PM)
- [~~Make the turbofish syntax redundant~~](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2544)
- [target_feature 1.1](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2396)
    - Centril wants someone to more convincingly say they’ll implement this.
        - ~~Centril will ask T-compiler on Zulip.~~

[**rfcbot pending list**](https://rfcbot.rs/)

- items to discuss this meeting:
    - merge: [**Introduce the ASM project group (rust-lang/rfcs#2836)**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2836#issuecomment-565269781)
        - [Centril](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/Centril)  [scottmcm](https://rfcbot.rs/fcp/scottmcm)

[**rfcbot pending list**](https://rfcbot.rs/)

