# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2020-11-17
* [Watch the recording](https://youtu.be/t3-tF6cRZWw)

## Attendance

* Team members: Niko, boats, Taylor, Josh, scott
* Others: simulacrum, mara, lcnr, oliver

## Before meeting checklist

* [ ] Update the project board with new proposals
* [ ] Update the project board with new RFCs

## Pending proposals
- "Add a `NOOP_METHOD_CALL` lint for methods which should never be directly called" [lang-team#67](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/67)
    - encourage Aaron to create the PR
- "Disallow keywords as macro arguments names" [lang-team#68](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/68)
    - Last time we talked, it seemed like exploration was needed
    - Range of options:
        - `$` + keyword
        - or some other sigil
    - How important is to to worry about and fix this?
        - Could do it as part of a macros 2.0 push
    - This could be readily addressed in parallel though with the more weighty macro issues
        - but we're spending meeting time and so forth
    - Alternative syntax (e.g., `$$crate`) has the advantage of not requiring an edition
    - Option:
        - Rule out identifiers and limit options to:
            - incorporate into macros 2.0 
            - alternative syntax
            - or consider for 2024 if still a live issue


## Project board review

Review the [Lang team project board](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2) and get updates

## Nominated RFCs
- No nominated RFCs this time.

## P-high issues on rust-lang/rust
- "New "warning incompatible with previous forbid in same scope" error" [rust#77713](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/77713)

## Nominated PRs and issues on rust-lang/rust
- "Tracking issue for RFC 2535, 2530, 2175, "Or patterns, i.e `Foo(Bar(x) | Baz(x))`"" [rust#54883](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/54883)
- "Switch `mutable_borrow_reservation_conflict` lint to deny by default" [rust#76104](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76104)
- "Add built-in implementations of `Default` for function definition andâ€¦" [rust#77688](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/77688)
    - several members leaning against
        - new capability (call without an instance), not obvious that it's a correct capability
        - conversations have maybe made folks feel less good about copy/clone, adding more not obviously good
            - permits `FnOnce` to be called more than once (if cloned)
                - though would require a bound, modulo specialization
    - is a PR the right venue?
        - it feels like it may want to be an RFC, given the complexity and controversy
    - related to safe transmute, the concern is "if you can't call the function normally, why should its type let you call it"
    - potential workarounds exist using unsafe code but it's complex, potentially leads to runtime errors
    - would like to see a design note 
    - Josh to write something
- "clarify rules for ZST Boxes" [rust#77844](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/77844)
    - niko in conversation with ralf
- "Support `pub` on `macro_rules`" [rust#78166](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78166)
    - would still like to see an RFC -Niko
    - would we want "no visibility equals old behavior, pub equals new behavior", or do we want a cleaner transition (e.g., in a new edition)
        - how much is that an implementation challenge, and who is signing up for it?
            - presumably you can replace `foo!` with `super::foo!` in most cases, or `crate::path::foo!`
    - conclusion: ping petrochenkov to ask about this -- Mark to write comment
    - Mark may be interested in helping
    - what are the conditions in which we'd want to land?
        - Niko: I'd be happy to land if this was part of some active group pursuing the design we want
- "Rename `overlapping_patterns` lint" [rust#78242](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78242)
    - Niko to rfcbot fcp merge
- "remove this weird special case from promotion" [rust#78363](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78363)
    - in pre-fcp
- "Apply `unused_doc_comments` lint to inner items" [rust#78367](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78367)
    - Niko to leave comment to suggest closing
- "[librustdoc] Only split lang string on `,`, ` `, and `\t`" [rust#78429](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78429)
    - check your boxes
- "Add #[must_bind] attribute and lint" [rust#78715](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78715)
    - alternative: lint against `let _ = X` and suggest `drop(X)`, or perhaps change behavior of `let _ = x` to be equivalent to `let _y = x`
    - but still accept `let (_, x) = y` and have `_` in this context mean "ignore the first element"
    - `#[must_use]` lint presently suggests `let _ = ` as a way to disable the lint
    - `let _ = foo();`
    - `let (_, _) = foo();`
        - when do tuple subelements drop?
        - also end of block
    - to implement: 
        - this would be a change of the temporary lifetime rules, related in that way to RFC 66
    - Mark to leave comment and summarize
- "Accept arbitrary expressions in key-value attributes at parse time" [rust#78837](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78837)
- "Use true previous lint level when detecting overriden forbids" [rust#78864](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/78864)
    - kick off FCP
- "passes: prohibit attrs on generic params" [rust#79073](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/79073)
    - treat the same as the last PR that proposed a similar change
    - next step: crater run
    - niko to kick off