# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2021-02-09
* [Watch the recording](https://youtu.be/KNemhVm8kgA)

## Attendance

* Team members: nikomatsakis, pnkfelix, scottmcm, cramertj
* Others: simulacrum, m-ou-se

## Meeting roles

* Action item scribe: simulacrum
* Minutes scribe: scottmcm

## Action item review

* [Action items list](https://hackmd.io/gstfhtXYTHa3Jv-P_2RK7A)

## Pending proposals
### "MCP: Deref Patterns" lang-team#77

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/77

* Have a [proposed charter](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/pull/78)
* Josh and I talked about this last time
    * the trickiest bit is that doing it right will require something like `DerefPure`
* Other considerations:
    * Syntax `deref foo`?
    * This likely does not fit into any of the listed priorities, though it may be considered "Targeted ergonomic wins and extensions".
* Notes:
    - want this, would be useful
    - definitely tricky: Deref currently runs user code, which make exhaustiveness hard (if not impossible) without extra constraints
    - codegen correctness may also be a can of worms: can we trust that something being a `Some` last time means we can just look at the internals later?
    - worry: having `unsafe DerefWhateverMarker` opens many doors; this isn't the only place that wants something like that.
    - `DerefPure` would conflict with a `String as DerefMut` that needs to allocate if we have the "free conversion to `String` from string literal".
- Conclusion?
    - Would be nice to have a summary of the state of DerefMove/DerefPure/etc?
    - Explore versions without exhaustiveness?  Or only irrefutable pattern support? Does having a version with `Pure` cause a hazard in the future?
    - Explore versions where exhaustiveness requires limitations, such as grouping all clauses that rely on Deref together.

## Nominated RFCs
### "try_trait_v2: A new design for the ? desugaring" rfcs#3058

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3058

* Updated based on [Scott's gist](https://gist.github.com/scottmcm/70a0b1d9c0bf3c33e8d87423bd6c2d63)
* Folks should re-read, anything else to say?
* Looks like it was never unnominated after the previous meeting; I've removed the tag.  But please do read -- indications so far are that it's much easier to follow now.  [Libs is also taking a look](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/219381-t-libs/topic/Thoughts.20on.20.60ControlFlow.60.3F/near/225656067). ~scottmcm

### "Change visibility scoping rules for macro_rules macros" rfcs#3067

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3067

### "Mark 2203 as mostly superceeded by 2920" rfcs#3073

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3073

* Niko merged
* Nominated because I couldn't find a specific & official lang decision about this being the plan, so wanted to make sure people saw it in case there were objections. (But of course it's not a commitment, so can be changed later if needed, so I don't think an FCP is needed.)

## P-high issues on rust-lang/rust
No P-high issues this time.



## Nominated PRs and issues on rust-lang/rust

### "Tracking issue for RFC 2535, 2530, 2175, "Or patterns, i.e `Foo(Bar(x) | Baz(x))`"" rust#54883

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/54883

* Can we unnominate this?
* Yes, see stabilization issue further down.

### "Lint for unused borrows as part of `UNUSED_MUST_USE`" rust#76894

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76894

* Waiting on answers to questions.
* (Also needs something to get past the rustbot block.)

### "Stabilize `unsafe_op_in_unsafe_fn` lint" rust#79208

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/79208

- stabilization report was added to the OP
- pFCP started; check your boxes

### "Stabilize or_patterns (RFC 2535, 2530, 2175)" rust#79278

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/79278

* [Pending FCP](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/79278#issuecomment-773032487)
* Question [Scott raised](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/79278#issuecomment-773124044) about precedence of or patterns:
    * `let Ok(v) | Err(v): T = ...`
* Parens are required in function headers
* Arguably `let Ok(v) | Err(v) = expr` would be ok
    * but `let (Ok(v) | Err(v)) = expr` is ok too
    * Niko and Taylor (and Mark) feel that the precedence is visually ambiguous
    * Josh is willing to go along with this temporarily, but would like to see the requirement for parentheses removed in the case of a `let` *without* a type. (No objections to permanently requiring parentheses when there's a `: T`)
* Conclusion:
    * Parens required in function header, lets, and closures --
        * any place that we have an irrefutable binding with optional type :)
* Action item:
    * Scott to write comment

### ""!" is the only type that is unsafe to raw-ptr-deref into a "_" pattern" rust#79735

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/79735

* Niko: Does someone want to talk point on preparing a proposal here regarding `let _ = *foo` is actually UB or not?
* Conclusion:
    * We want unsafe to be required (rust#80059) and it is considered UB for now until we decide it should really be UB (punting on this).
* Niko to record conclusion, assuming unsafe block will be needed.

### "Unsafe checking skips pointer dereferences in unused places" rust#80059

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/80059

* Niko: Going to work with LeSeulArtichaut on this
* No lang action item now.

### "don't gratuitously error on tests returning Result with lifetime" rust#80934

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/80934

- Old rule was "No generic tests"; proposed rule is "No generic parameters except lifetimes".
- Seems lacking in motivation.

* Background: 

### "Allow specifying alignment for functions" rust#81234

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/81234

* Permit `#[repr(align=32)]` on functions, which translates to LLVM
* No feature gate in current PR
* Consensus: sounds good as unstable; Josh to say "go for it" officially for unstable.

### "Support forwarding caller location through trait object method call" rust#81360

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/81360

* Extend `#[track_caller]` to virtual dispatch for `dyn Trait` values
* This works by changing the ABI, but couldn't do that for virtual dispatch.
* Is this inherited by all impls?  Sounds like yes.  Should it then be required on the impl to match?
* Do we need a writeup?  Should it go in unstable and have a report before stabilizing?  Should it have an RFC update to the `track_caller` RFC?
* Taylor to ask for a writeup.

### "Allow casting mut array ref to mut ptr" rust#81479

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/81479

> Nominating for `T-lang`, this allows the cast `&mut [T; N] as *mut T` copying the already existing one cast `&[T;N]  as *const T`.

* Niko to say "go for it"

## Edition nominations


[Edition spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1chZ2SL9T444nvU9al1kQ7TJMwC3IVQQV2xIv1HWGQ_k/edit#gid=0)

* Out of scope for the 2021 edition because too complicated
    * Consider deprecating weird nesting of items
    * Tail expression is interesting, but the rule would be tricky.
    * `pub type Foo = Bar`
* `k#foo`
    * Not itself backwards compatible
    * Use case:
        * Allows us to release keywords and stabilize before the new edition comes about
        * When you migrate, the edition migration will remove the `k#throw` edition
    * Adding `k#foo` would require an edition change to macros by making them lex `k#foo` as a single token
        * But as a `cargo fix` it should just be adding spaces inside the macro invocation, which shouldnt' be too horrible.
    * Let's continue on Zulip.
    * (what scott sain in the meeting he'd already written there)


### "Update BARE_TRAIT_OBJECTS lint to deny in 2021 edition" rust#81244

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/81244

### "[Edition vNext] Consider deprecating weird nesting of items" rust#65516

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65516


