---
title: Triage meeting 2021-09-28
tags: triage-meeting
---

# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2021-09-28

## Attendance

* Team members: nikomatsakis, Felix
* Others: Mark

## Meeting roles

* Action item scribe: Mark
* Note-taker: nikomatsakis, Felix

## Scheduled meetings
-  "Structural equality" [lang-team#94](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/94) 
-  "Non-terminal divergence between parser and macro matcher " [lang-team#111](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/111) 
-  "GATs and defaults" [lang-team#115](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/115) 

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

* nikomatsakis: For GATs, Jack and I were discussing a system where we
    * use an analysis to determine whether `where Self: 'a` (etc) would be defaulted
    * error if the trait does not include those defaults
        * thus people have to add them explicitly
    * this gives us freedom to change strategy later
* nikomatsakis: Heads up, planning meeting next time!
    * Active initiatives not listed [here](https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/initiatives.html)?
    * Liaisons: prepare write-ups!

## Action item review

* [Action items list](https://hackmd.io/gstfhtXYTHa3Jv-P_2RK7A)

## Pending lang team project proposals
### "negative impls integrated into coherence" lang-team#96

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/96

* Niko and Jane to sync

### "Deprecate target_vendor " lang-team#102

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/102

### "Non exhaustive reachable patterns lint" lang-team#112

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/112

### "Async fundamentals initiative" lang-team#116

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/116

* nikomatsakis: I'd prefer if somebody else served as liaison here
* The scope and more details can be found at https://rust-lang.github.io/async-fundamentals-initiative/

## PRs on the lang-team repo
### "Initial draft of copy ergonomics design note" lang-team#62

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/pull/62

* blocked on mark making some changes

### "Add draft of variadic notes" lang-team#76

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/pull/76

* blocked on cramertj?

### "consensus decision making" lang-team#113

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/pull/113

* felix left comments

### "Fix issue template link to "initiative process"" lang-team#117

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/pull/117

* merged!

## RFCs waiting to be merged

None.


## Proposed FCPs

**Check your boxes!**
### "RFC: Add `target` configuration" rfcs#2991

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2991

* Requires a few changes to the RFC, author hasn't done them in a while
* Maybe josh can do them 

### "Tracking issue for RFC 2523, `#[cfg(version(..))]`" rust#64796

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64796

* No update since June

### "Proposal: Change syntax of where clauses on type aliases" rust#89122

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/89122

* Action item: Niko to propose a design meeting

## Active FCPs
### "Perform type inference in range pattern" rust#88090

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/88090

### "Stabilize RFC 2345: Allow panicking in constants" rust#89006

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/89006

### "negative impls integrated into coherence" lang-team#96

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/96

* blocked on Niko creating a repo

### "Non exhaustive reachable patterns lint" lang-team#112

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/112

* Closed

## P-critical issues

None.


## Nominated RFCs, PRs and issues
### "Tracking Issue for relaxed struct unsizing rules" rust#81793

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/81793

### "Stabilize built-in attribute macro `#[cfg_eval]`" rust#87221

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/87221

### "Port clippy lint `redundant_field_names` to compiler" rust#87512

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/87512

### "Which patterns on union fields should be considered safe?" rust#87520

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/87520

* Needs an owner / assigned to nikomatsakis for now

### "Make all proc-macro back-compat lints deny-by-default" rust#88041

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/88041

* August crater run:
    * ðŸ“Š 52 regressed and 0 fixed (4945 total)
    * Two warnings becoming Deny by Default

### "Perform type inference in range pattern" rust#88090

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/88090

* Pending FCP

### "Determine how to handle casting of arbitrary discriminants with different enum styles" rust#88621

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/88621

* Meeting consensus:
    * People present in meeting were surprised to realize that `as` could be used on enums with empty parameter lists (enums that are not C-like, but which have no fields, e.g., "kind 2")
    * Don't have sufficient quorum to pick a path
    * Given time pressure, prefer to revert stabilization and revisit the question
    * Mark to comment on issue
* Niko would like to see a "full matrix" of what is allowed for each category of enum (Niko to comment)

### "Unactionable "field is never read" warning for printed structs with the Debug derive" rust#88900

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/88900

* Lots of discussion!
* OP: a stuct whose purpose is to be debugged, consider this a false warning
* tmandry: really disruptive
* matklad: suboptimal user experience, whatever else they think
* brainstorming briefly:
    * we could introduce a different name for the "new lint" (e.g., unused-in-debug)
        * could've made unused a group, for example
    * something more "cargo fix"-able
* what is recommended strategy here?
    * pin the compiler, is an option
    * clear that some work is needed

### "Document using liveness to infer auto traits for async blocks" reference#1088

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/1088

* Basic idea is that ehuss is documenting the rules
* Mark points out that it would be nice to document the current rules
