---
title: Triage meeting 2022-03-15
tags: triage-meeting
---

# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2022-03-15

## Attendance

* Team members: Niko, Felix, Josh
* Others: Mark, David, Lokathor, skippy, Michael Goulet, Mara

## Meeting roles

* Action item scribe: Mark
* Note-taker: nikomatsakis

## Scheduled meetings

- Tomorrow: backlog bonanza
- Mar 23: RPITIDT (nikomatsakis/tmandry)
- Mar 30: Lint policy (pnkfelix)

## Announcements or custom items

### GATs update

nikomatsakis: 

* jackh726 is working on a stabilization report; 
* jackh726 is investigating whether we can avoid having two `Iterator` traits. Maybe it is possible to extend `Iterator` trait "in place" with GATs. The idea would be to extend to `Item<'me>` and interpret existing code as "must not depend on the `Item` parameter".

pnkfelix: How many traits do you think would be potentially GAT-ified?

nikomatsakis: Not every trait, probably `Iterator` and closure traits.

simulacrum: Are you thinking about the ecosystem too?

nikomatsakis: Are you saying, if you make a new trait where GATs could make sense, should you use it?

simulacrum: Right, general guidance, is it a good default to start using GATs immediately? Since presumably it will be a breaking change (modulo outcome of the above).

nikomatsakis: Probably our initial advice would be no, the ergonomic hit would be too high, we haven't added the syntactic sugar for cases that "only sometimes need to be GATs".

joshtriplett: anything else to cover here?

nikomatsakis: no, I think we're good for now, we'll do a design meeting in the future.

## Action item review

* [Action items list](https://hackmd.io/gstfhtXYTHa3Jv-P_2RK7A)

## Pending lang team project proposals
### "Deprecate target_vendor " lang-team#102

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/102

### "Support platforms with size_t != uintptr_t" lang-team#125

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/125

### "Positional Associated Types" lang-team#126

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/126

### "Interoperability With C++ Destruction Order" lang-team#135

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/135

### "inner crates, aka multiple crates per file" lang-team#139

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/139

### "allow construction of non-exhaustive structs when using functional update syntax" lang-team#143

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/143

### "Add #[deprecated_safe] attribute to allow functions be be marked unsafe in a backwards compatible fashion" lang-team#147

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/147

joshtriplett: Allows you to take a fn that is currently safe, mark it as unsafe, but such that you get a *warning* when using it in a safe block. Intended for the environment functions (not safe to use in some multithreaded contexts in which you can't be sure that C code isn't also calling them in parallel).

joshtriplett: Original name was `rustc_deprecated_safe` but was renamed to permit "potential stabilization".

joshtriplett: Seems like an obvious and good idea. Anyone feel we *shouldn't* do it?

nikomatsakis: +1. Let's do it!

pnkfelix: I'll second it!

nikomatsakis: Follow these steps! https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/initiatives/process/checklists.html#approve-a-proposal

pnkfelix: Should we summarize the thread on the issue?

nikomatsakis: has there been significant discussion?

skippy: not too much, I added a note that we might want to support more places (e.g., traits) eventually.

### Async fn in traits lang-team#150

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/150

nikomatsakis: yes, I closed existing "async fundamentals", only question is whether I should second (tmandry will be owner). 

joshtriplett: not obvious how much person serving as liaison needs to be someone otherwise qualified to be on the types working group, vs just "normal lang reviewer" expertise.

nikomatsakis: I don't really see the role of the initiative as being a domain expert, they're meant to help represent lang team

pnkfelix: right, I think it's actually good if they lack some of the specialized knowledge, since they can represent "rest of the team" who might not understand it

joshtriplett: if someone who is meant to be a liaison is meant to be a proxy for concerns, they're able to raise concerns like "this needs more detailed explanation", less feasible to raise considerations that require the detailed understanding. 

nikomatsakis: I'm more concerned about the high-level stuff than the low-level details. I think we've got those low-level details covered pretty well between tmandry and I.

pnkfelix: Another way to think of it, the failure mode for a meeting where we read a doc is when people show up with a doc that is too complex for team to follow.

joshtriplett: I'm willing to serve as liaison if people don't mind me explicitly asking a lot of questions.

nikomatsakis: that's a feature, not a bug. great!

*joshtriplett seconds it.*

## PRs on the lang-team repo

None.


## RFCs waiting to be merged

None.




## Proposed FCPs

pnkfelix: Would be useful to see concerns that have been raised

**Check your boxes!**
### "New Rust attribute to support embedding debugger visualizers" rfcs#3191

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3191

joshtriplett: This attribute references file paths. It uses the `include_str` behavior, not the `#[path]` attribute from `mod`. Probably correct, but also under discussion.

### "Allow using `for<'a>` syntax when declaring closures" rfcs#3216

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3216

nikomatsakis: This proposes

```
for<'a> |x: &'a u32| -> &'a u32 { }
```

Has some limitations. If you use this syntax, all lifetimes must be named, none can be elided, so you can't do:

```
for<'a> |x: &'a u32, y: &u32| -> &'a u32 { }
```

Moves towards closing a gap where today you have to use inference to get some signatures.

pnkfelix: Does it support bounds or where clauses?

nikomatsakis: No.

nikomatsakis: Doesn't like a huge game changer, but it seems like the obvious notation that people will try to use.

joshtriplett: Is this "semantically equivalent" to the use of `for` that has been floated for "existential" context elsewhere? e.g., in the middle of a return value, being able to say "I'll take a something of T for any T".

nikomatsakis: Probably yes?

joshtriplett: I think that's an experimental syntax, not sure where precisely it's supported?

pnkfelix: Any change you can find a link?

nikomatsakis: You can write today `where for<'a> T: Fn(&'a u32) -> &'a u32`, which would match that initial closure I gave.

joshtriplett: Is for an "introducer"

nikomatsakis: It's a binder, it says "forall"

pnkfelix: Isn't it `where T: for<'a> Fn(&'a u32)`

nikomatsakis: they are equivalent and both supported

joshtriplett: In this example:

```
fn foo<'a>(x: &'a u32) {
    let c = for<'b> |arg1: &'a u32, arg2: &'b u32| { .. };
}
```

```
fn foo<'a>(x: &'a u32) {
    let c = |arg1: &'a u32, arg2: &u32| { .. };
}
```

nikomatsakis: currently, at least, you need to have some kind of "top-down" hint to infer that `arg2` could be a fresh lifetime each time it's called:

```
    let c: fn(&'a u32, &u32) = |arg1: &'a u32, arg2: &u32| { .. };
```

joshtriplett: do we support using `'a` there to reference the parent lifetime?

nikomatsakis: afaik.

joshtriplett: do we still want the for syntax in order to be explicit even if in the future we'd prefer to be able to automatically handle it?

pnkfelix: I think there are benefits to have an explicit syntax, but I'm always on the side of making things explicit

nikomatsakis: I feel like it's useful to have a syntax even if you don't expect people to have use it

nikomatsakis: my concern is that I don't see a way to *scale* this syntax to all the ways I could imagine ([link](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3216#issuecomment-1064219041))

lokathor: could we introduce elision later on?

nikomatsakis: it's an intentional subsetting to leave space for a future decision; the problem is that there are 2 or 3 things you might mean by it and it's not clear which is right.

joshtriplett: I think given all this it's ok to move forward with `for`, even if this is not the "ultimate syntax"

nikomatsakis: agree, I think I will resolve my concern

### "Tracking Issue for const offset_from (const_ptr_offset_from)" rust#92980

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/92980

### "Stabilize `let else`" rust#93628

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628

nikomatsakis: how hard do people think the temporary lifetime stuff is?

pnkfelix: no

joshtriplett: do we have a specific test case with what we are trying to fix?

pnkfelix: lcnr posted a playground, but it's not in the PR

pnkfelix: right, I can make a table to try and summarize key cases. I just got nerdsniped.

### "Stabilize `let_chains` in Rust 1.62.0" rust#94927

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/94927



## Active FCPs
### "Tracking issue for `const extern fn` and `const unsafe extern fn`" rust#64926

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64926

### "Always evaluate all cfg predicate in all() and any()" rust#94295

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/94295

### "Deprecate target_vendor " lang-team#102

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/102

### "Positional Associated Types" lang-team#126

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/126

### "Interoperability With C++ Destruction Order" lang-team#135

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/135



## P-critical issues

None.




## Nominated RFCs, PRs and issues discussed this meeting

### "Tracking issue for Allow a re-export for `main` (RFC 1260)" rust#28937

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/28937

joshtriplett: Does this need further discussion?

nikomatsakis: I think this is all set, nobody has strong opinions about it, seems like it "might be nice".

joshtriplett: Any objections to marking as "ready to stabilize"?

### "Allow `impl Fn() -> impl Trait` in return position" rust#93582

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93582

```rust
fn f0() -> impl Fn() -> impl Trait;
//                   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ new
fn f3() -> &'static dyn Fn() -> impl Trait;
```

analogous to `T: Iterator<Item = impl Trait>`, which works today.

pnkfelix: How does the `dyn` example work?

nikomatsakis: it's equivalent to:

```rust
type Alias = impl Debug;
fn f3() -> &dyn Fn() -> Alias {
    if true { foo } else { bar }
}

fn foo() -> u32 { 22 }
fn bar() -> u32 { 22 }
```

nikomatsakis: One question is about precedence of `+`:

```rust
fn f0(&u8) -> impl Fn(&u8) -> impl Trait + '_; // what should this mean?

fn f0(&u8) -> impl Fn(&u8) -> (impl Trait + '_);
fn f0(&u8) -> impl Fn(&u8) -> impl (Trait + '_); // * niko finds these the clearest
// vs
fn f0(&u8) -> impl Fn(&u8) -> (impl Trait) + '_;
fn f0(&u8) -> impl (Fn(&u8) -> impl Trait) + '_; // * niko finds these the clearest

// would it not be this? 
fn f0(&u8) -> (impl Fn(&u8) -> impl Trait) + '_;
```

pnkfelix: suggestion: please specify both variants, in terms of what desired precedence is intended.

nikomatsakis: `fn foo(x: &impl Fn() -> impl Debug + Send)`

nikomatsakis: what I wanted form this meeting was agreement to go with "Require disambiguation"

joshtriplett: "don't guess" seems like a useful language property: if it can be A or B, you don't just pick one. I like "nonassociative operators" in haskell: you *can't* do `x op y op z` without parentheses. We should apply this pattern elsewhere.

mara: +1

pnkfelix: in the limit, lisp!

joshtriplett: tempting to make `->` non-associative, but right-associative seems right, but the combination of it and `+` is sufficiently ambiguous...

mara: it's a bit tricky, other languages with non-associativity is the property of a precedence level. We do want to support `a + b + c`, but don't want to support a combination of arrows and plusses.

joshtriplett: yes, tricky.

### "Allow struct and enum to contain inner attrs" rust#84414

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/84414

nikomatsakis: has anyone looked at this? seems straightforward.

scottmcm: (from before) feels weird to do this after having removed it from match

mara: seems weird to have them in places where we have comma separated things rather than semicolon separated things

nikomatsakis: don't have a strong opinion, but would like to reach a decision, maybe Josh you'd like to move to close?

joshtriplett: should I untag compiler first?

pnkfelix: fine with me.

joshtriplett: it would be nice if close didnt require fcp in the first place, since it's reversible.

## Nominated RFCs, PRs and issues NOT discussed this meeting

### "Lazy tait take two" rust#94081

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/94081
