---
title: Triage meeting 2022-01-11
tags: triage-meeting
---

# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2022-01-11

## Attendance

* Team members: Josh, Taylor, Felix
* Others: Mark, Mara

## Meeting roles

* Action item scribe: simulacrum
* Note-taker:

## Scheduled meetings
- Enum discriminants and casting, planned for January 12, jswrenn prepared some work for this
    - doc: https://hackmd.io/FejspdTdSX-xaPrcFc5W9w?both
    - How does https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/81642 (`AsRepr`/`FromRepr`) fit into this broader story?

-  "Structural equality" [lang-team#94](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/94)
-  "Never allow unwinding from Drop impls" [lang-team#97](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/97)
-  "Dyn upcasting, safety considerations" [lang-team#119](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/119)
-  "Const eval overview" [lang-team#131](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/131)

## Announcements or custom items



## Initiative check-in: never type

## Summary

* Work has started on inlining problems/evaluations from issues, gists, etc.
  See [no inference changes](https://rust-lang.github.io/never-type-initiative/evaluation/no-inference-changes.html),
  [PRs/issues](https://rust-lang.github.io/never-type-initiative/evaluation/issues.md); the no inference changes page is likely
  mostly complete. Some other pages are also available but in more draft status.

## Goals for this month

* Continue to fill out scenarios, particularly explanations of current
  feature-gated state and the effects (breakage, expectations for next steps).

## Questions for discussion, meeting proposals

* No particular all-lang questions yet. Current trajectory suggests that we will
  have a complete-ish set of documents for lang review in 1-2 months, depending
  on bandwidth. Current expectation is that we have a roughly ready nightly
  implementation, but more work is needed to document it and the tradeoffs it
  makes.

Copying from [update](https://rust-lang.github.io/never-type-initiative/updates/2022-01-11.html).

## Action item review

* [Action items list](https://hackmd.io/gstfhtXYTHa3Jv-P_2RK7A)

## Pending lang team project proposals
### "Deprecate target_vendor " lang-team#102

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/102

### "Async fundamentals initiative" lang-team#116

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/116

### "Attribute for trusted external static declarations" lang-team#118

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/118

### "Prototype Sync & Async Iterator Items (Minimal generators)" lang-team#121

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/121

### "Support platforms with size_t != uintptr_t" lang-team#125

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/125

### "Positional Associated Types" lang-team#126

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/126

### "Heap allocations in constants" lang-team#129

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/129

### "Attribute to reverse field destruction order in the drop glue" lang-team#135

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/135

* No direct objections raised, though some desire to review.
* Scott notes that explicitly indicating current drop order may be useful as well.

## PRs on the lang-team repo

None.




## RFCs waiting to be merged

None.




## Proposed FCPs

**Check your boxes!**
### "Change location of where clause on GATs" rust#90076

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/90076

* Niko and Josh expect to talk about this shortly.
* Parsing both and steering toward one (e.g., via rustfix) may unblock this.

## Active FCPs
### "Positional Associated Types" lang-team#126

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/126

### "Attribute to reverse field destruction order in the drop glue" lang-team#135

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/135



## P-critical issues

None.




## Nominated RFCs, PRs and issues

### "impl Not for !" rust#91122

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/91122

- Open question: does lang need to approve, or be consulted, on new impls of traits for `!`?
- Conclusion: no, but consult Mark (owner for `!`) if there are any doubts
    - Please use caution for anything with associated types
    - In particular, must never have a method that doesn't take self but returns Self, because that would allow constructing a `!`.
    - Also use caution for binary operator traits, because they may cause inference issues (wouldn't be possible anyway due to overlap)

### "Tracking issue for `#![register_tool]`" rust#66079

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66079

* Is the expectation that clippy, rustdoc, rustfmt are going to be added as registered tools in ~all crates?
* rustfmt and clippy are hardcoded in the compiler
* Want to be able to introduce new tools without hardcoding them in the compiler
* 