---
title: Triage meeting 2022-05-10
tags: triage-meeting
---

# T-lang meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2022-05-10

## Attendance

* Team members: Niko, Felix, Scott, Josh
* Others: Mark, lcnr, David Barsky

## Meeting roles

* Action item scribe: Mark
* Note-taker: nikomatsakis

## Scheduled meetings

* Backlog bonanza
* Non-exhaustive structs and functional update syntax
* Keyword/modifier generics

## Announcements or custom items

### Meeting schedule (nikomatsakis)

> Did we post a blog post? Can we? :)

### Status update: chalkification / types team

Working towards a smarter trait checker that can accommodate some of the designs we have coming up.

### Negative impls

* Working through negative impl RFC draft with spastorino
* One interesting thing that came up was the realization that you might like a way to "I am not implementing this now but I might in the future" (i.e., not `impl Foo for Bar`, which is a committment to implement thinsg, nor `impl !Foo for Bar`, which is a commitment not to) -- this would allow you to "hold space" for a future blanket impl that might get added. Won't be part of this RFC, was just interesting.

### Update on GATs

nikomatsakis:

Jack opened a stabilization proposal to stabilize GATs. Also wrote a blog post.

Lots of activity on the proposal.

Three main things:

1) Concern raised by some folks (notably nrc): GATs are too complex for the expressiveness they bring to the language, we shouldn't have them at all.
2) Too many rough edges to *currently* stabilize (BurntSushi), such as weird lifetime errors
3) Folks using them today who would like to see them stabilized

Plan is for Jack and Niko to write a post responding to the concerns.

## Action item review

* [Action items list](https://hackmd.io/gstfhtXYTHa3Jv-P_2RK7A)

## Pending lang team project proposals

joshtriplett: Last week we talked through how to go through this list of pending proposals. We didn't get to a full resolution on that. But I think we are closer.

nikomatsakis: What I walked away with...

* A liaison need not wait for FCP but should write a issue that describes scope as they see it, open questions, etc
    * note that this is slightly out of sync with tooling and existing documentation <-- should update!
* In particular, reframing from an overly solution-oriented proposal to a more "problem space"-oriented framing is often appropriate, as well as summarizing key constraints or comments made
* Liaisons should feel free to do that
* Eventually should have an auto-reminder on issues
* We never added the "extra unstable" feature flag, right?

nikomatsakis to try and update documentation tomorrow (Wed)

### "Deprecate target_vendor " lang-team#102

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/102

### "Support platforms with size_t != uintptr_t" lang-team#125

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/125

### "Positional Associated Types" lang-team#126

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/126

### "Interoperability With C++ Destruction Order" lang-team#135

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/135

### "inner crates, aka multiple crates per file" lang-team#139

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/139

### "allow construction of non-exhaustive structs when using functional update syntax" lang-team#143

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/143

### "Add #[deprecated_safe] attribute to allow functions be be marked unsafe in a backwards compatible fashion" lang-team#147

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/147

### "Async fns in traits" lang-team#150

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/150

### "dyn* trait" lang-team#158

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/158

### "Initiative: `?` traits, `try` blocks, `yeet` exprs, oh my" lang-team#160

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/160

nikomatsakis: what is this?

scottmcm: I want to add yeet!

nikomatsakis: ok. cool.

scottmcm: yeet is in! https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/unstable-book/language-features/yeet-expr.html

### "Initiative: Ghost types and blocks" lang-team#161

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/161

### "Keyword generics" lang-team#162

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/162

### "Add const evaluatable `where const { <block> }`" lang-team#163

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/163

scottmcm: there was a bunch of conversation about this on Zulip, maybe we can make progress? It seemed like a bunch of the const-eval people were commenting about "hey this looks like it's just syntax, we might not be ready to do this, the hard part isn't really the syntax, it's getting the semantics right", so I don't know if this is something we need, or this is an end-game of the existing const-eval work that they'll get to eventually, but until the people working on it say they want, I don't know if we want to do this.

nikomatsakis: I feel like I want to have more of a vision doc: what problems are we solving, what is the experience we're shooting for, and not so much specific proposals. 

nikomatsakis: To cut to the chase, are you suggesting we close this?

scottmcm: I think so?

pnkfelix: I see lcnr's point that you can already do it via a trait, is the right strategy to use some syntactic sugar? It seems like it'd be easy to do but do we even want to encourage it?

nikomatsakis: sort of where I'm at, if/when we decide we want it, we can add it?

pnkfelix: I think spelling that out when we close it makes sense.

nikomatsakis: I think we should close it, just not sure what we should say when we do so.

scottmcm: the syntax looks reasonable, so it's more "are we ready to have this". Maybe answer "if this is happening it should happen under existing project group", and thus doesn't need a separate lang initiative. Will eventually need an RFC, of course, if we ever want to get on a stabilization path.

nikomatsakis: I would say that the existing group has the ability to add this as an experimental thing.

simulacrum: I'm not sure if they should, though, as I think their liaison.

scottmcm: Got impression that group is aware they could but not wanting to. Agree we shouldn't say "go tell this group you're going to go do this under their purview", but if we say "when existing group is confident in the semantics we've defined, then if they wish to add this, they can do that", but maybe at that point they 

nikomatsakis: scott, you and I can take this offline and write something?

## PRs on the lang-team repo

None.


## RFCs waiting to be merged
### "Allow using `for<'a>` syntax when declaring closures" rfcs#3216

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3216

Niko has no time to do this

re-assigned to pnkfelix

## Proposed FCPs

**Check your boxes!**
### "Refined trait implementations" rfcs#3245

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3245
- [**Tracking Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3245#issuecomment-1116370994): 
	> Team member @nikomatsakis has proposed to merge this. The next step is review by the rest of the tagged team members:
	> 
	> * [ ] @cramertj
	> * [ ] @joshtriplett
	> * [x] @nikomatsakis
	> * [ ] @pnkfelix
	> * [ ] @scottmcm
	> 
	> Concerns:
	> 
	> * unresolved-question-for-next-edition (https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3245#issuecomment-1116371336)
	> 
	> Once a majority of reviewers approve (and at most 2 approvals are outstanding), this will enter its final comment period. If you spot a major issue that hasn't been raised at any point in this process, please speak up!
	> 
	> See [this document](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcbot-rs/blob/master/README.md) for info about what commands tagged team members can give me.
- [**Initiating Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3245#issuecomment-1116370985): 
	> @rfcbot fcp merge
	> 
	> I think we've got consensus on most of this here -- the main question is whether, in the next edition, `#[refine]` ought to be required in order to see the effects of the change or optional (perhaps with a lint). I'm going to separate propose a concern to move this to an unresolved question, I dont' see why it should block this RFC from going forward now.


### "Create a types team" rfcs#3254

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3254
- [**Tracking Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3254#issuecomment-1119603114): 
	> Team member @nikomatsakis has proposed to merge this. The next step is review by the rest of the tagged team members:
	> 
	> * [x] @Aaron1011
	> * [x] @cjgillot
	> * [ ] @cramertj
	> * [x] @davidtwco
	> * [x] @eddyb
	> * [ ] @estebank
	> * [ ] @joshtriplett
	> * [x] @lcnr
	> * [x] @matthewjasper
	> * [ ] @michaelwoerister
	> * [ ] @nagisa
	> * [x] @nikomatsakis
	> * [x] @oli-obk
	> * [x] @petrochenkov
	> * [ ] @pnkfelix
	> * [x] @scottmcm
	> * [ ] @wesleywiser
	> 
	> No concerns currently listed.
	> 
	> Once a majority of reviewers approve (and at most 2 approvals are outstanding), this will enter its final comment period. If you spot a major issue that hasn't been raised at any point in this process, please speak up!
	> 
	> See [this document](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcbot-rs/blob/master/README.md) for info about what commands tagged team members can give me.
- [**Initiating Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3254#issuecomment-1119603100): 
	> @rfcbot fcp merge
	> 
	> I think this is ready to go! For now, we're running forward with the idea of this as a subteam of compiler/lang, so I've tagged the RFC with those two teams.


### "Stabilize `let else`" rust#93628

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628
- [**Tracking Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1029383585): 
	> Team member @joshtriplett has proposed to merge this. The next step is review by the rest of the tagged team members:
	> 
	> * [x] @cramertj
	> * [x] @joshtriplett
	> * [x] @nikomatsakis
	> * [x] @pnkfelix
	> * [ ] @scottmcm
	> 
	> Concerns:
	> 
	> * need-consistency-rvalue-temporary-rules-between-let-and-let-else (https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1055738523)
	> * ~~not-while-rustfmt-breaks-on-it~~ resolved by https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1032936704
	> * ~~semicolon~~ resolved by https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1059799661
	> * ~~stabilization-report~~ resolved by https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1033846359
	> * ~~summarize-concerns~~ resolved by https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1056785904
	> 
	> Once a majority of reviewers approve (and at most 2 approvals are outstanding), this will enter its final comment period. If you spot a major issue that hasn't been raised at any point in this process, please speak up!
	> 
	> See [this document](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcbot-rs/blob/master/README.md) for info about what commands tagged team members can give me.
- [**Initiating Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/93628#issuecomment-1029383577): 
	> Shall we stabilize `let else` syntax? We've had many demonstrated uses, including extensively throughout `rust-lang/rust`, we've seen the value of it, and there aren't any known issues with it.
	> 
	> @rfcbot merge

Have a meeting scheduled on Thursday with a possible contributor

### "[Experiment] Remove migrate borrowck mode" rust#95565

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95565
- [**Tracking Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95565#issuecomment-1110084133): 
	> Team member @joshtriplett has proposed to merge this. The next step is review by the rest of the tagged team members:
	> 
	> * [x] @cramertj
	> * [x] @joshtriplett
	> * [ ] @nikomatsakis
	> * [ ] @pnkfelix
	> * [ ] @scottmcm
	> 
	> Concerns:
	> 
	> * confirm-no-other-regressions (https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95565#issuecomment-1110084111)
	> * wait-for-96268 (https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95565#issuecomment-1110084111)
	> 
	> Once a majority of reviewers approve (and at most 2 approvals are outstanding), this will enter its final comment period. If you spot a major issue that hasn't been raised at any point in this process, please speak up!
	> 
	> See [this document](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcbot-rs/blob/master/README.md) for info about what commands tagged team members can give me.
- [**Initiating Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95565#issuecomment-1110084111): 
	> @rfcbot merge
	> 
	> @rfcbot concern wait-for-96268
	> @rfcbot concern confirm-no-other-regressions

* Still just waiting on "confirm no other regressions"
* Niko added concern for investigating https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/96331
* Mark to ping mara to find out extent of her review and possibly do add'l review

### "Remove label/lifetime shadowing warnings" rust#96296

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96296
- [**Tracking Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96296#issuecomment-1114024288): 
	> Team member @joshtriplett has proposed to merge this. The next step is review by the rest of the tagged team members:
	> 
	> * [ ] @cramertj
	> * [x] @joshtriplett
	> * [x] @nikomatsakis
	> * [ ] @pnkfelix
	> * [ ] @scottmcm
	> 
	> Concerns:
	> 
	> * doc-pr (https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96296#issuecomment-1116366940)
	> 
	> Once a majority of reviewers approve (and at most 2 approvals are outstanding), this will enter its final comment period. If you spot a major issue that hasn't been raised at any point in this process, please speak up!
	> 
	> See [this document](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcbot-rs/blob/master/README.md) for info about what commands tagged team members can give me.
- [**Initiating Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96296#issuecomment-1114024287): 
	> T-lang, do we have consensus to make label scopes limited to their block, and eliminate spurious shadowing warnings?
	> 
	> @rfcbot merge

scottmcm: at least one of these warnings was just *wrong*, because it said "warning: label name `'a` shadows a label name that is already in scope" for a situation where it factually wasn't in scope.


### "[EXPERIMENT] disable orphan check for marker traits" rust#96766

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96766
- [**Tracking Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96766#issuecomment-1120278460): 
	> Team member @scottmcm has proposed to close this. The next step is review by the rest of the tagged team members:
	> 
	> * [ ] @cramertj
	> * [ ] @joshtriplett
	> * [ ] @nikomatsakis
	> * [ ] @pnkfelix
	> * [x] @scottmcm
	> 
	> No concerns currently listed.
	> 
	> Once a majority of reviewers approve (and at most 2 approvals are outstanding), this will enter its final comment period. If you spot a major issue that hasn't been raised at any point in this process, please speak up!
	> 
	> See [this document](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcbot-rs/blob/master/README.md) for info about what commands tagged team members can give me.
- [**Initiating Comment**](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/96766#issuecomment-1120278449): 
	> You know what, I feel strongly enough about this that I'm going to put forward a motion.
	> 
	> @rfcbot fcp close
	> 
	> @lcnr mentions in the OP that they'd prefer not to make this change, and I agree.  `#[marker]` is about traits where it's ok to disable the *overlap* rules.  If people want an orthogonal feature to disable the *orphan* rules, that's great, but I see no reason it has to be coupled to `#[marker]` traits specifically.  (And if, hypothetically, said feature had the "it's ok if they have the same implementation" rule, that sounds to me like it specifically wants to work on *non*-marker traits too.)
	> 
	> So let's take the opportunity here to, as the OP said, "officially decid[e] that we don't want this".
	> 
	> (I have this as a T-lang FCP because I don't think the bot can do a traits team pFCP, but if anyone on @rust-lang/wg-traits wants to put a concern on here, ping me and I'll add one on your behalf.)
	> 

nikomatsakis: I'm adding a comment to the issue with some thoughts from the negative trait discussion. In short the orphan check 

scottmcm: Note that Copy seems kind of like a marker trait and is a good example where negative would be useful.

pnkfelix: If there's a doc trait -- how can we note this discussion?


## Active FCPs
### "Tracking issue for `explicit_generic_args_with_impl_trait`" rust#83701

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/83701

### "Modify MIR building to drop repeat expressions with length zero" rust#95953

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95953

scottmcm: As I understand the PR, it doesn't let you do a zero-length array with an uninitialized value, which I think is good, but did we have a conversation about whether we want it? I added a comment with a test case that I think continues to fail but which we could theoretically make work ([comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95953#issuecomment-1120287438)).

nikomatsakis: something like this?

```rust
let x;

let y = [x; 0];
```

joshtriplett: I think we want that to error, precisely as it does in the test case you just posted.

nikomatsakis: I agree, but I'm trying to make a more principled statement as to why.

pnkfelix: wait, side effects happen right?

```rust
let y = [println!("Hi"); 0];
```

scottmcm: so it's kind of analogous to `let _ = ...`, right?

joshtriplett: does it drop at the end of the block?

nikomatsakis: temporaries are dropped at the end end of statement, the main value is dropped right away, so `[expr; 0]` is equivalent to `drop({expr})`.

scottmcm: `[x; 0]` becomes `{ drop(x); [] }` is how the PR has it implemented, as I understand it.

nikomatsakis: regardless of how it's desugared, the fact that it gets evaluated means it must be initialized.

joshtriplett: scottmcm, can you file a blocking concern/

pnkfelix is struck:

```rust
fn main() {
    let x: u8;
    let _ = x; // accepted
    let _ = { println!("Hello"); x }; // rejected
}
```

nikomatsakis: that's different, for better or worse matching a pattern against an lvalue is different, only evaluates the parts that are not matched against `_`. That enables this:

```rust
let x = (String::new(), String::new());
drop(x.0);
let (_, y) = x;
```

### "Deprecate target_vendor " lang-team#102

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/102

### "Positional Associated Types" lang-team#126

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/126

### "Interoperability With C++ Destruction Order" lang-team#135

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/135

### "allow construction of non-exhaustive structs when using functional update syntax" lang-team#143

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/143

### "Add #[deprecated_safe] attribute to allow functions be be marked unsafe in a backwards compatible fashion" lang-team#147

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/147

### "Async fns in traits" lang-team#150

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/150

### "Initiative: `?` traits, `try` blocks, `yeet` exprs, oh my" lang-team#160

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/160

### "Initiative: Ghost types and blocks" lang-team#161

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/161

### "Keyword generics" lang-team#162

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/162



## P-critical issues

None.




## Nominated RFCs, PRs and issues discussed this meeting

(none yet, move things from the section below as they are discussed)


### "Neither require nor imply lifetime bounds on opaque type for well formedness" rust#95474

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95474

Nomination issue: 

https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/95474#issuecomment-1090199898

> This is a breaking change, fixing a soundness bug. Crater found no regressions.
>
> TLDR: `&'b OpaqueType<'a>` currently implies `'a: 'b`, even though that isn't necessarily true if the opaque type's hidden type does not have any lifetimes, thus causing unsoundness. After this PR, we don't imply that this outlives bound holds anymore.
> 
> A moderately longer explanation of what is going on can be found in this earlier comment on this PR. An example of code that will now fail to compile is the newly added test. Note that it will also break cases that accidentally use this soundly.

nikomatsakis: as far as I can tell, this is a straight-up bug fix, analogous to this case

```
&'a <T as SomeTrait<'b>>::Item

impl<T, 'x> SomeTrait<'x> for T {
    type Item = u32;
}
```

I think we should fix it.

```rust=
fn foo<'b, 'a>(x: &'b OpaqueType<'a>) {
    // in the code today, the fn body can assume 'a: 'b
    //
    // with this PR applied, it cannot
}
```

joshtriplett: Could someone who feels able to do so draft the relnotes

nikomatsakis: I'll take action item to move to merge and write something

joshtriplett: feel free to check my box

### "Document the effect of main's return value?" reference#1196

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/1196

joshtriplett: Discussed previously, should I just comment that we are comfortable with this being documented?

nikomatsakis: I think so, along with the note that much commentary can live in the API docs.

### "Add attribute to run specific tests in an isolated process" compiler-team#508

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/508

joshtriplett: we commented on this. Un-nominating.

## Nominated RFCs, PRs and issues NOT discussed this meeting
### "Covariance-related GAT lifetime mismatch" rust#89352

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/89352

nikomatsakis to address this async

### "nested RPIT and HRTB: unclear semantics and future incompatibility" rust#96194

**Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/96194


