---
title: Planning meeting 2021-11-03
tags: planning-meeting
---

# T-lang planning meeting agenda

* Meeting date: 2021-11-03

## Attendance

* Team members: Niko, Felix, Josh, Taylor
* Others: simulacrum

## Meeting roles

* Action item scribe:
* Note-taker:

## Proposed meetings
-  "Non-terminal divergence between parser and macro matcher " [lang-team#111](https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/111) 

## Group updates



## Agenda topic: How to get initiative updates more orderly =)

* Template 
* Bot
* [Initiative list](https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/initiatives.html)
* What should be the "master list" and how do we assemble it?
    * Everything should probably have a tracking issue, but many of them are not actively being worked on
* Creating repositories
    * Would be nice if the team repo could create repositories
        * with permissions all set up

## Meta lang team initiatives

### Initiative process

* Finalizing how we track groups
* Updates 
* Blog post or two to help people be aware of new system
* Idea Niko just had:
    * autogenerate markdown from tracking issues :)

### Backlog bonanza

* Triage all the tracking issues for extant features and categorize them into one or more of:
    * Things blocked because they need to bake
    * Things blocked because not implemented
    * Things blocked because implementation is not complete, known bugs
    * Things blocked because of outstanding concerns

### Nomination processes

* Sort of T-lang
* We have `I-lang-nominated`, `I-libs-nominated`, etc
* Plan to "deploy"
    * Move existing issues over
    * Scripts that use `I-nominated` have been updated
    * Give it a week
    * Delete the old label
    * Document on forge
* Nomination template for lang
    * "What question do you want us to answer"
    * "What background or context do you think would be most helpful"

### Consensus procedure

* Need to agree and write the bot
    * Josh will pursue
* Need to clearly out the "here is what you do" steps
    * i.e., a quick reference for the common commands
    * Josh has written this doc; just needs to be merged

## Design meeting schedule

- Backlog bonanza variation: triage all the open lang tracking issues, label them for why they're blocked, or that they're ready for someone to write a stabilization PR

Plan:

- Nov 10: Backlog bonanza - tracking issue triage
- Nov 17: Impl trait overview (inference algorithm, named fn types)
- Nov 24 (day before thanksgiving): Never allow unwinding from drop impls (https://github.com/rust-lang/lang-team/issues/97)

## Pending lang team project proposals

* Reviewing notes from [triage meeting yesterday](https://hackmd.io/qpZnGmlaR9mEMujvFLmKUQ).

### Discussing enum variant type

* Plan was to close it.
* Niko: concerned about this being something that works like 80% of the time but never reaches stability ('the next never type') because it breaks "just a bit" too much code in practice.
* (Motivation is even similar to never type: `Result::Ok` is a lot like `Result<T, !>`)
* cramertj: Also there are a bunch of other things I want that would grow scope considerably, e.g., I really wish `None` did not have a type parameter.
* Niko: Right, I think the stuff we can easily get will not be satisfying.
* cramertj: I think it would be annoying in the end because it's not quite aligning the space.
    * I don't think it's just a matter of "nobody has time for this"
    * It's that the "minimal version" that has already been RFC'd...
        * we don't want something that kind of works
* Niko: i.e., we are kind of at a local maximum, and to reach other spots, will take significant investment; small perturbations may make it worse.
* Mark: Easy to imagine lots of "small edits", and pursuing that path, may wind up blocking us from reaching the coherent end state we really want.
* cramertj: right, so we start out with 1 variant, then we wind up doing some ad-hoc extension for 2 or 3... etc
* Niko: seems like we reached the same conclusion but with a better elaborated reasoning.
* felix: some points in this landscape just seem fundamentally impossible, right, e.g., `None` not having a type parameter?
* cramertj: a more realistic version might be `None` having a never type parameter than can be coerced?
    * not sure if it works or is nice
* niko: *talks a bit about boxed types* :)
* cramertj: trying to square what I'm used to in scala...
* niko: yes, which is awesome
* felix: I can believe there are other features that might allow it, but at that point we are talking about a big change to the language. 
    * Still won't change how `None` works for enums as we know them now
    * Important to recognize that there are guardrails that we will never reach. Don't want us to not try for other things because of this dream that can't happen.
* niko: you're saying don't let perfect be enemy of the good, right?
* felix: yes, the conv has had that flavor
    * I know we are talking about letting good be the enemy of mediocre, or think we are, but we should be careful
* cramertj: yeah, we have to be careful about this, it's a good point
    * it's easy to get caught up in what we want
    * helpful to see realistic constraints
* josh: fwiw, I am not afraid of doing some hill climbing in order to get to something better, esp. given the availability of editions
    * less concerned about a design trap as I am about getting into a position where there are near-unfixable holes
    * we keep getting into these situations where you have soundness holes from some combination of complex things 
    * I always feel like these come up in the features we understand least
    * I'm ok to hill climb if we feel like we are avoiding those areas we don't understand super well
* niko: I feel like there are variations where we can keep it *sound*, but I also feel like it's going to wind up in some place where we have to tweak the inference rules endlessly to get code to compile, much like never type, and I don't know who's going to put in the time/energy to track that. I hate to block things on lang team capacity but it is something we have to take into account or else we have more than we can handle. 
* Niko and Taylor: Seems like you could build a procedural macro to provide some of this.

### Random idea: double references

* Josh: We've discussed the challenges of auto-ref, auto-deref, and so forth, and I have said that I get really uncomfortable when I find I have a `&&&str` or some such thing. This is not hard to do thanks to iterators + match inference + other things. Makes me feel uncomfortable not knowing what type I'm working with.
    * One angle that came up when Niko and I were talking is "what if the language were such that `&&T` was the same as `&T`"
    * Obviously there's "some details" to hammer out, and mutable references (e.g, `&mut &mut T` could be useful).
    * Part of the goal would be to think about what would be unlocked if we felt like multiple references don't wind up happening, or are considering logically equivalent. Would that make autoref like things more comfortable?
    * A lot of my discomfort comes from multi-reference types.
* Felix: Are you suggesting operationally you'd make it so that you could never hold a `&&T` in your hand, the computer always does the derefs needed to get you to an `&T`? Does this change the "operational model" as the computer is running?
* Josh: It would mean "there's just no thing as a reference to a reference".
* Felix: Are you saying that's only at the surface level of the language, or does it introduce new operations as the machine runs?
* Josh: It would change how the machine runs - you wouldn't get pointer-to-pointer-to-pointer values when you take references to references.
* Niko: In Lark we were working through the idea of "data types" such that e.g. `&u32` was "just a" `u32`.
    * If you are not thinking of "wanting a pointer" but just in terms of "what the value gives you", an `&u32` adds nothing over an `u32`. It's strictly less useful, it's bigger, slower to access, valid for less time. Similarly, an `&&T` is not more useful than an `&T`.
* Felix: Seems like more magic gets introduced. Aren't you introducing dereferences?
    * Niko: I don't think so. It's more like: if you do `&x` and the type of `x` is `&u32`, you just get a copy.
* Niko: The reasons we didn't do this initially....
    * wanted to have more C-like semantics, where a pointer is a pointer
    * but also wasn't sure how it would play with generics and substitution. If we made a change such that `&&T = &T`, then if you have `&U` for some generic `U`, you know it's a pointer, but not that it's a pointer to `U`. (In Lark, you wouldn't even know that!)
* Cramertj: We'll never get rid of extra references, because of needing to work with C code, right?
* Josh: with raw pointers certainly
* Cramertj: But I need to be able to pass in `&Vec<&&&T>` to C.